"So much of being a kid is having to navigate your parents' responses to things rather than processing your own emotions" is one of the most insightful things I've heard in a while.
Her being a diagnosed sociopath AND a person that has a doctorate in clinical psychology makes this video a billion times more interesting. She both experiences and understands what being a sociopath can be like. I'm in awe  Edit:Guys please check the definition of awe if you are not sure,i dont want to be misunderstood and thank you for all the likes i really wasnt expecting themmm.
As someone who is empathetic to the point where it causes me anxiety and I have to constantly remind myself to disassociate from other people's anger or frustration, this is a fantastic reminder... We all live in our own universe and we're all perceiving the world in very different ways. This woman could chew me out at a store and I'd feel it for weeks and she'll walk away and forget that it happened... It's very helpful and liberating to just be reminded that we're not responsible for other people's emotions or reactions. I'm grateful to her for sharing this perspective. Thank you 🙂
The cut from “sometimes I pee my pants,” to “… so I was at the White House” took me the OUT
I really enjoy this long, uninterrupted format where awesome people, by any standard, get time to just explain themselves, something important we didn't know.
„If I don‘t act out, I might be uncomfortable, but I can process this differently“ is almost identical to the coping strategy for ocd compulsions. Very interesting.
i had a therapist much like her in the sense that she didn’t try to empathize with me, more so her focus was simply to help me. she retired a few years ago, and i’ve been struggling to find a therapist like her ever since. i don’t want my therapist to be my friend, i want them to be my doctor. its incredible that she has recognized that psychology doesn’t have to be emotional and id imagine she’s helping a lot of people
The way she describes cognitive journaling is so interesting because forcing myself to entertain counter thoughts like that is probably the single best thing that helped me treat my own anxiety.
I usually look at kids who are bullies and think “they must be mistreated at home” but based on how she describes herself as a child, some of those bullies are probably sociopaths.
Her self awareness is what saved her from becoming more destructive, and directed her to her acceptance of what she is. Most people don’t have that ability to evolve as individuals, or it takes a long time. And people with antisocial disorders frequently don’t ever catch on, or care to catch on to their behavior. I have a sibling on the antisocial spectrum, and the secondary gains from her destructive behavior seems to outweigh her desire for healthy relationships. The high she gets from destroying someone is worth it to her.   I’m glad Patric can be so honest in her assessment of herself. And that she does want to participate within society. That makes all the difference.
It's interesting at 7:59 when she says "kind" interactions dont make her feel like "oh I'm such a good person". I would say a lot of empathetic people don't do kind things for that reason either, and that's not where the dopamine comes from. I think we get the burst of feel good feelings not from feeling like a good person, but from the positive connection we feel with someone else when we perform said kind behaviors. A warm genuine smile from a stranger, etc. it makes us feel good.
Ugh I loved this! When she was talking abt sociopaths in media my mind immediately went to the BBC Sherlock, “I’m not a hero I’m a high functioning sociopath” 😂
This is genuinely one of the most fascinating things I’ve ever watched on YouTube.
I notice that diagnosed sociopaths and psychopaths consistently talk about compassion and empathy as something learned or false. They don't have an internal sense of the genuine pleasure that comes with kindness, so they only connect it with the external pretty that also comes with it. It's like watching a blind person describe the color red. It's good to hear from someone on the mild to moderate spectrum to disown the myth of inherent criminality.
As an autistic person with ADHD, I was shocked how many of her experiences I can relate to. Not 1:1 but masking, understanding something intelectually but not REALLY feeling it, acting out to release an undescribable pressure inside... Sociopathy is mythologised as something non-sociopaths can NEVER understand but it turns out that other neurodivergent people deal with very similar issues. I'm so glad I watched this!  EDIT: The amount of people in the replies trying to tell me she is in fact evil and dangerous and I shouldn't sympathise with her or compare my conditions to hers is bonkers. You have watched an interview with a person trying to explain how challenging living with sociopathy is and then rushed to the comments to warn people who sympathised with this to stay away from those dangerous 'freaks'. You should be ashamed.
Due to my place on the spectrum, I have always been the family member to call on for funeral arrangements. My 'secret joy' was meeting with a funeral director with a family member who was distraught from the death; it was just like in the movies; he tried pushing my relative to paying for a $15,000 or $20,000 casket. My relative turned to me, 'What do you think?' Now, this relative knows I don't feel things like other people, but I am considerate of others; I pointed out the cheapest casket, around $4,000; the simplicity would 'feel' more appropriate to our deceased and their surviving significant other, as well as pointing out the religious symbolism in the corners matched the deceased and surviving significant other's religious beliefs. 'Oh, yes, that would be better,' my relative said. I looked at the funeral director, and he had the most pissed off look on his face that I ruined his big pay day. I stared at him blankly, but inside, I felt good that I got to stick it to this vulture preying on the vulnerable. I've always wondered how many people overpaid due to an emotional vulnerability.  I'm not going to lie; I would have preferred a more destructive or violent reaction to this disgusting person.. But I understand it was just one moment, it would've only made things worse; I can't look out for everyone all the time, but I got to look out for my own relatives.
This has truly been the most eye-opening content on sociopathy/anti-social personality disorder I’ve ever watched. Her analogy for why she feels compelled to act out with OCD was incredibly effective. I’ve never considered it that way. I feel like i have a tremendously better understanding of how their minds work and why they do certain things.
I’m sooooo glad we’re starting to talk about mental health as a spectrum
The fact that she lived in a good home and had plenty of resources might be the reason why she didn't became involved in  worst things.
Relief from a diagnosis, from getting an explanation, is something that non-sociopaths can relate to if we have different disorders.  Getting my anxiety and depression diagnosis helped me to understand I didn't have a "weak personality," and that was a relief.
So very counter intuitive, a diagnoses sociopaths understand the importance of personal emotions, better than most neurotypical people
Kids learn this early on. Can't say how many toddlers I see fall or bump against something and are just fine if they don't realize someone noticed it. But the moment someone nearby has a reaction to it, they start to bawl their eyes out. So many studies pointing out that kids learn their phobias from their parents and family. How many daughters dislike the same parts of their bodies their mother's profess not to like about themselves?
OMG is this a side eye for her saying her parents caused her criminal behavior?  Also I'm sure her book is a buncha bull and she's laughing her way to the bank
 @gigi9301  What are you even talking about? such a weird comment.
Exactly. She says she doesn’t know the cause of her sociopathy, but it sounds to me like her parents made her feel like she couldn’t express any negative emotions. She said she felt emotionally suffocated as a child, probably from having to stuff down her feelings. The problem is, that when she push down one, you also repress all the others, until you become disconnected from all your emotions.
🎯 There’s a whole subset of abused kids won’t disclose their abuse because a parent’s emotional reaction would be too painful or too heavy to navigate alongside the original wounding. When a parent can’t/don’t/won’t emotionally self-regulate, they recruit all the energy in the room for their own emotional chaos, abandoning their child in the process. I was one of those abused kids, with an unhealed parent who could not suspend their own process to create room for mine.  It intensified my suffering by orders of magnitude, and isolated me in shame and secrecy. Folk like me will delay healing by decades just to protect the healing process from being consumed by a parent lacking in self-awareness or boundaries.   Moral of the story: Half of parenting is emotional self-regulation. Let your children have their own experiences and processes. As the adult in the room, you’re there to hold space and provide maturity and safety, not to consume the space by reacting to your own triggers. Do adult reacting and adult unpacking later, among other adults.   Loved this part of the interview
​ @Saffron831 and 3 more folks liking Gigi's nonsense. Makes me wonder if they are even listening to what we are.
​ @sjennica  that's incredibly thoughtful and insightful, and it made me think about my own childhood. Thank you.
This makes so much sense to me. I've always wondered why kids liked me so much when I'm such an awkward and blankish person around them. But it makes sense with out environment that they would feel safer with they're own feeling around me. I also like to ask them a lot of questions on how their brain works and what their thought process for things are. It can feel nice to not have an adult dictate your every thought and feeling.
Oh Jeez did this lady Ever say she was disturbed by her parents...you're making hate out of nothing at all   To all you loserly kids, drop it and forget about it your parents will wise up, forget about you and leave you out of the will; they will also decline your fake reconciliation attempts because they know you're just about the money.     If that's what you want Great.  How pathetic are you really
I'm just sorry that she let people think she has a disorder because her intellect provides her with the possibility to have awareness of her very natural behaviors. No human will not place themselves above others. It's smart to work together, but that is the secondary behavior that, to most, is about as instinctive as the first. Being aware doesn't make you sick, your coping mechanisms might need adjustment.
 @mrsrr  you're sorry she let people think she has a disorder? That doesn't make sense. She's talking about her mental health diagnosis. It is not natural to stab a girl with a pencil or break into houses or cars. Humans who place themselves above others are usually sick, traumatised. You might need to talk to a licensed therapist if you think those are normal behaviours
I have high emotions , too much empathy , too many feelings and this is one of my concerns when I think of my futurs kids, giving space to their feelings..Yay therapy
 @rosa2098  the kind and volume of negative emotions a Sociopath has are very disturbing to bear for their surrounding , especially parents. For sure, she felt suffocated.....but not, because her parents expectations were unduly high.....rather was the lack of her positive emotions very alarming for sensitive persons....who had more than a clinical interest in her development. The speaker is blame- shifting Here in a not- so-subtle way...., Like she did with the child she attacked, that in her mind just should not have been near her .
This is definitely true. I recently had to do it with my mom, too. I was having my inlaws over for a turkey dinner, because we'd wanted to make one on Christmas, but it was still frozen, so we went over to their house instead. Then, after Christmas, we were going to have them over for turkey as well, just because. My mom thought I was having a big Christmas dinner without her, and I tried a few times to tell her that wasn't the case, and that is when I realized that part of being a kid is managing your parent's emotional response to things too. In my case, I invited my mom over, and she felt really awkward because it really was just her and my inlaws and my fiance and I, but the dinner went well, and thankfully she had brought a pie along, which turned out great because we forgot about dessert anyways.
​@gigi9301  no, she pretty clearly says she felt pressure to act a certain way and doing the crimes helped her feel relief of that pressure, basically because she was purposefully choosing to not act the way she was supposed to act. The criminal behavior has nothing to do with the parents.
​ @natashachocolat  I think if it's something on your mind (to make sure to give space for your own kids feelings) then you're gonna be in a good frame of mind to make that happen. It's when you don't consider that important that you don't do it.
As a child of a narcissist and an enabler: that line? BARS🔥
She dead on. I owe my happy life to a mother who had that same kid but with patience and love my mom set about training her kid through long, long but gentle lectures of how you have two choices in everything in life. You can make your life harder by allowing your impulses to take over or you can control them. I seriously remember her every word. I am 69-years old and well "adjusted". I play my mental head games in everything I do still to stay the course.
I liked this part too. It is a good way to parent.
​ @gigi9301  That's ... Not what she says at all? Did you watch the video?
But you need to do that on some level. My god why are people glorifying sociopathy like a super power?
 @natashachocolat you are an Empath. Being highly sensitive to your children’s needs is a good thing. A parent who is the opposite, that’s when children develop emotional dysfunctions.
@ Agreed. As someone who went through one of the most horrific childhoods possible, her parents did not cause her to be this way. Just no.  This is something people like this say to elicit sympathy and avoid responsibility.
@ Have you ever dealt with a psychopath or sociopath on an intimate level for an extended period of time?  I'm guessing no. In fact I'd bet my house on it.   Likewise I'd bet my car that the people on here telling this woman is full of it have had that experience. You are all assigning this woman feelings and motivations that YOU have and not listening to the few honest words she telling you. And you are putting society in danger in the process.
 @user-os1mx1ol6r  She admits she likes to create distress. She doesn't do it ONLY for personal security. Yes, I have lived with these types of people, user. This raises the question, user: Are YOU one of these people? Or just codependent?
@ User, maybe I missed the mark and misunderstood you. I thought you were defending her. If i'm wrong, my apologies. I'll leave my post up, though, to redirect to those people who are glorifying this loose cannon.
 @gigi9301  You're getting the flyingmonkey treatment, gigi. Hang strong. These people don't understand this rather stunning looking lady is a pied piper leading them to a cliff, pulling on their selfish heartstrings about their own childhoods to the point where they think it's good advice not to give your kids your opinions. Meanwhile MOST kids benefit from a healthy modeled empathy. Kids need to know their parents are proud of them. They need to know "Oops, that can hurt the ones I love." I can't believe people are so bedazzled so easily by someone who straight up admitted she's wearing a mask and feels nourished by people's misery.
I just wonder how they became aware of it so early and developed this skill so well. As an autistic it's really struggling. Im not interested in socializing and getting things from others, but I don't want to really go in there and manipulate them. to me it's really just I want to stay aside but people keep bugging me for everything. At least I wish i had their awareness to protect themselves
This, I really want my son to know that I see his pain and that he doesn't have to hide behind his defiant behavior. It's okay to express to me that I've let him down. What he wants. Yet maybe he doesn't know how to get what he needs outside of my limits. Maybe that's why he's been acting up, pushing me away. Hmmm...
Wow, I finally understand why psychiatrists refer to trauma from a child's perspective. It's never made sense to me. But seeing the depth makes much more sense. Thank you.
​ @natashachocolat  I'm glad to see someone else here that's overly empathetic. Every problem our kids have pulls on our heart strings. We also struggle with not exploding when we've had enough. We have to remember we're the adults it's awesome when we get to he nice. But man, left unchecked it's taxing. I feel you. Let me know if you've learned some patenting lessons that help.  Setting timers helps me but it doesn't help the emotional triggers. From exhausting myself. hmmm? 🤔
She doesn't get that fuzzy feeling from helping others? That's eye opening. I didn't know that about sociopaths. thank you!
You don't have to be a sociopath to put your kids emotions first
Oh, so pleasure delaying is a factor. That makes so much sense. That's what I experienced with my ex. The way he'd push off connection push away my needs. I just had to deal with the feelings the best I could. That pain still hurts. I don't think that rock sitting in my chest will ever go away.
Yes guys thats the key. I have a youtube channel and I am trying
 @gigi9301  it's hard to think that as a psychopath, she is motivated by anything other than personal gain. This makes her hard to trust.
 @Dummydoes3d  counter-intuitive or not, that’s life. Kids are forced to worry about their parent’s responses to things because they’re the ones taking care of them. That’s why most parents try to be calm in an emergency or not put their bad feelings on their children in general. A kid learns their feelings through their parents.
 @gigi9301  Your comments here paint you as the embodiment of "People talking without speaking, people hearing without listening" from the song Sound of Silence.  I'd choose to be friends with the person open about their darkness, over the person who is either naïve to the deepest parts of themselves, or the person who selfishly elevates themselves when faced with someone's openness.
I believe more individuals are sociopathic than we actually know.   People are not inherently good.. good is learned by watching others.  Otherwise we would do what ever we want. No matter the consequence. Hence why consequences matter to some over others
@HollyNashWoodVille  It absolutely is when the fickle masses now think it's a good idea to withhold your emotions from your kids. Why do you think we have iPad kids, Holly? The fickle followers.
@HollyNashWoodVille  Yet you had no mind to say what you are even referring to. You might be an iPad type.
What the grandmother by David lynich. It'll show this in far more detail.
Yeah. Even as an adult I sometimes find myself navigating other people's emotions more than my own. I agree this may at times be unhealthy.
 @sjennica that is excellent advice! Thank you thank you from a Dad! I appreciate you!
Yeah it's something my therapist has said, but in less blunt ways. It's very true. Makes me really appreciate people who can be a little more subdued and let kids figure themselves out
 @Dummydoes3d  I think this is because most neurotypicals have trouble differentiating themselves fully from other people. There's an overlap in sense of self, whereas sociopaths and some other neurodivergent view others as completely separate.
​@ericepperson8409  Yep. We discouraged people from reacting too strongly to our daughter falling or bumping her head, basic minor injuries, etc. because we knew most of the time she wouldn't react that strongly, and it allows us to know when she's actually hurt. We know if she's crying after a fall, she's actually really hurt or at least very scared by what just happened. 9 times out of 10 she shakes it off and keeps going with a simple "You okay?" "Yep!" and sometimes we don't even ask, she'll just say "I'm okay!"
Its true, and it's an awful way to grow up. Still interesting how some kids grow into sociopaths while others grow up with extreme empathy
It took therapy for me to understand, years later.  I was desperate to steer clear of the chaos. I thought perhaps that I was insane somehow, because I could not predict and deal with the emotional waves my parents were experiencing.   I was always a "bad child", even though I had no idea what was expected of me.  They offered little to no instruction, but punishments if what I did was not what they wanted.  I felt like the metal ball in a pinball machine.  My OWN emotions I didn't have the time to consider.  I took the time later in life. I feel for them, now, as they certainly would have profited from therapy.  They didn't do that back then.  If someone suggested that you seek mental help, you'd punch them. Obviously they meant to offend, right?  Today that means "You are in pain. I care about your pain, and I want to see you thrive."  Progress.
That hit SO hard! I was raised by abusive parents, and to this day I'm hypervigilant, trying to head off conflict and anticipating people's needs. It's because I was heavily parentified as a kid, and if I didn't try to manage my parents' emotions, things got really bad in my house. Literally didn't discover this about myself until I hit my 30s and went to therapy to unpack my childhood. 💀
​ @sjennica  wow, you described this so well. I only recently realized that with this maybe I can even say I was parentified because it was expected of me to take care of my parents emotions, to make them happy, to ease their frustration. My parents don't know anything about emotions, and they suppress all the "negative" ones. They are not bad people at all, but are really emotionally immature and have never taken the responsibility for how this affected me. They have been deminishing my mental struggless too just because they don't know what to do with helplessness. I've been in therapy for 8 years and only now I started to learn self-regulation, because it was really a lot to unpack.
​@MinkaSchlossberger4everit wasn't just her parents expectations, it was also the whole society, because most people feel a lot, and she is different. Did you ever feel different and felt like you needed to mask,have you ever felt the pressure of that? And I didn't hear anywhere that she justified her behavior, she just explained the science behind it and said herself that because of that event she wanted to change her destructive behavior.
This is so true. My mother was insistent that she have 'my consent' for things such as taking medication to education choices. Except, I have strong recollections of myself at the age of 7 just trying to work out what response she wanted to hear.
really resonated with that comment too. thats how I felt as a child  growing up. It took me a long time and lsd to be able to feel empathy and other deeper emotions towards people other than just feeling nothing.   I also have a criminal record. But don't do illegal things anymore cuase jail sucks. Not because it's wrong.
@ I didn't actually go to a therapist until after my father died.  There were so very many....secrets I'd been sworn to.  It felt a lot better to get them off my chest in therapy.
Yep, this is how you end up developing things like pathological lying sometimes. I got so used to lying to my mom (and much older than me sister sometimes) to not get a reaction out of her when something really MINOR happened (like me forgetting to do something) that I'd catch myself lying for no reason to others later on. This took a long while to get over.
⁠ @sjennica Convincing my adult children and husband that it’s perfectly normal for me to cry or be sad & upset that my life has changed & I miss my kids or grandkids. I’m allowed to show emotion - I’m not being manipulative, I’m being human! My husband had never heard of “empty nest syndrome.” When our 6 kids were gone, he had a very nasty case of it & took it out on me. He was very very angry & distressed. Sometimes you just gotta acknowledge the suck so you can move on. I think sociopaths are at a disadvantage because they don’t feel & recognize those emotions as they occur. They have to assign the emotion to the situation. I suspect it’s wayyyy more common than doctors realize.
This is true, although I'm very different from my siblings and my siblings are very different from each other
 @user-os1mx1ol6r  You are number six or seven to say a similar erroneous thing, so I highly recommend to watch the video again and pay more attention. At no point did she blame her parents or hid behind that. In fact she stated the very opposite, namely that she knew very early that she was different. It had nothing to do with her parents. And at no point in the video does she hint to want to receive any sympathy. And most of all, she did not avoid responsibility, quite the opposite. She spent a great deal of her life trying to understand her condition, helping herself and others  finding ways to have a functional, non-destructive and even constructive life despite the disorder.
Maybe so, but I still have a huge problem leaving it to "how does the child feel about it" - it gives no chance for parenting to make an impression on a child on how they should be behaving and what they should want for themselves. It's not about the grade; it's about a standard of integrity and self-worth.
 @jbjacobs9514  I understand where you're coming from, however, the last part of what you said isn't a good perspective IMO. No one should find their self worth from a grade, status, etc. I think providing space for the child to express their emotions first is healthy, then the parent can express their emotions in a respectful way. No child is going to truly respect their parent if the parent can't control their own emotions. (this is for negative emotions,  positive emotions are more acceptable to freely express as its obviously less harmful to the child)  Ultimately, teaching your kids to be self aware and understand their emotions or lack there of is extremely important for becoming the best version of themselves.
 @l00c55  I have no issue or aversion to children expressing their emotions or opinions. Sometimes there is a reason for things that happen. Children generally respect structure, stability, consistency, and a firm mind. If the parents are wishy-washy, the kids will pounce. It just is very new age right now to say let the children decide in a way; no child is going to respect a parent that doesn't care enough to discipline or teach them (assuming the parent is stable and a good parent - not all are, to your point in a way).
 @l00c55  What I meant by the grade is that you take pride in getting good grades, studying hard, following rules, and being responsible. Not status in the sense of class or station in life; making yourself and your parents and others proud is what I meant. People rarely even know what that is anymore.
 @jbjacobs9514  Obviously the parent should discipline and provide structure and consistency...my comment had nothing to do with neglecting those practices. My point is that if the parent is not understanding where the child's behavior stems from and just immediately disciplines them that's just neglecting their emotions and putting a band-aid on the problem.
Codependency is the now attached patterns and responses cathected during primary and secondary socialisation through the perceptive way in which we adapt to have our needs perceptually met by our parents moods (and their unfinished business). Few ever do the work to undo these behavioural patterns. Or addictions.
Absolutely. Giving a child space to process their own emotions is huge. I had the opposite issue. My siblings and I were forced to be solely responsible for my parent's negative emotions. I learned to disconnect from my own emotions in order to more easily conceal them, lest I be punished harshly for failure to identify with my parent's rejections of me. I had the maladaptive style of Avoidant Personality Disorder. To this day, I self-regulate best when I'm alone and I still struggle to self-regulate in the presence of others.
​ @gigi9301 listening to you is destructive behaviour. It's a possiblelty your projecting.. something happened to you to believe this is BS..
 @brandyjean7015  lol why are you so invested in their opinion, is this you Patric? xD
Right, however, children need to be correctly mirrored in order to develop their own self. That is something she unfortunately can't provide unless she masks and/or her husband steps in.
It makes sense, kids view the world though parents' reaction as they aren"t seperated until the individuation.
This right here is the root of all of my issues in life.  My mother framed my father as the terrible abusive parent, yet my mother was the primary one who abused me physically and mentally.  My mother had 0 patience & ruled like a tyrant who yelled and insisted that what she said was final, period, end of story.  In her mind the child doesn't have a say, and certainly doesn't have any room to say a word about being treated terribly or unreasonably.  The concept of a boundary did not exist because I was not allowed to have any boundaries.  So I took the role of the perfect child, the little angel who had to stay silent, bite their tongue, and manage my parents' emotions FOR THEM.  It took me DECADES to unravel this nonsense.
 @Dummydoes3d  A clear, deep, conscious understanding of emotions is a requirement for a sociopath to function in society. This is where the master manipulator trope comes from because it's an overlapping skillset.
my dad would just scream at me for the most random things, never actually tell me what i did or shouldn't have done or why, so i just walked around my whole childhood waiting to be screamed for something anything
 @heatheryfeathery1  I know; I don't know how this thread got out of hand with people blaming her parents and then their own parents
So true! Here are my thoughts maybe you can add or discuss something - I think I know WHY I am doing compulsive behavior - it's because in that moment I don't have control I feel like I am powerless, I can change something and I believe it's about control and also when you do something harmful it's about control - you Take something from other people, you do something that other people wouldn't do, you have control over your choices and over your body 🤔 but again I don't know what about sociopaths body fells real pain when I don't want to do sime ritual - so I do it 😢 Work with therapists helped, I didn't go to therapist because of compulsive disorder behavior but with other problems but I see that it also dramatically improved (Sorry not native English speaker)
As a parentified daughter I agree, as an autistic who should have been diagnosed as a child I doubly agree, the parents get so butt hurt when they're the ones who don't have the lifelong disability, but are worried how their public image will be affected, the better ones care about their kids futures moreso than living vicariously through them.
Small acts of deviance, to feel better. Probably to chase a dopamine high? Thanks for your clear explanation on how you adopted socially and why you masked.
Didn't even watch the video yet, and this absolutely hits. 🫂
I agree!! If i think of my experience of my parents and my rejection of them as an adult and my relief of not having to see them everyday, I'm relieved at not having to be beholden to their emotional needs!!
​ @rosa2098 Are you kidding??  She is educated and well studied and counselled in her own behaviour, but you think you can disagree with her diagnosis it and bring it back to this??
​ @sjennica Oh!! This is interesting! I have this when I hug people to help them feel better about my situation.. the hug doesn't help me.  I learnt about this as an adult because my husband would want to hug me when we were arguing and I got to a pint where I flat out refused.  It came down to me saying, I understand you want to hug me, but hugging me doesn't make me feel better, it makes you feel better, and at this time I resent having to be responsible for and override my own feelings. So that even at a time where my responses are valid, you're asking me to put them aside and allow you to hug me..  It's such a weird response to gwt on top of.. but i can see just the tip of understanding it now, that even as a child, I was having to manage my parents feelings about me, manage their emotional responses to my situation..
This could be generalised to social interactions in general. Emotions are just a personal experience and they really shouldn't impact people around us.
She has now become an authority on the psychopathological disorder to which she is subject. Not very different from what Ted Bundy did, who became interested in psychopathology and studied psychology, according to a documentary about the serial killer.
Gives me a different way to look at my childhood with my mother. One of us had serious issues, and the other one developed complexes about it. Thx mom.
⁠ @Dummydoes3d probably because she has a doctorate in psychology, not necessarily because she is a diagnosed sociopath
Makes her also infinitely more adept at manipulating her audience. Every word of hers is coached and honeyed in such a way that she makes herself the center of attention, the special character, the unicorn that "no one would recoil in horror from" yet that must accepted as she is.  Pretty sure a lot of people in her life have in fact been taken aback by her casually admitting to be a sociopath. It'd be an immediate red flag the size of the Red Square.  Every word she says must be taken with a grain of salt, because sociopaths lie. They always have the agenda to be on top, to be in control, even inside their own story.
@ Yes, sociopath is now in the common vernacular for someone suffering from ASPD. My point was that when someone with ASPD opens their mouth, there's always the goal of manipulation behind them. Nothing they say should be taken in itself with face value.
⁠ @nm7358  but what you’re missing is the intention. Some lie and manipulate to hurt people, but for the most part  it’s a mean s to just to fit in to the societal norms. Nothing that she’s saying is inaccurate to someone who may be a sociopath. And honestly, there’s so many people who have told their stories in this medium that we don’t know that they’re sociopaths they could be lying all the time but because she admitted that she’s a sociopath you immediately don’t trust her which honestly is kind of BS. People who aren’t sociopaths manipulate and lie all the time.
That’s the leading reason people go into psychology, to understand their own brains.
​ @nm7358  alright but like the proposal she's making isn't bad, I feel like it's too quick to put on a pessimistic view on this.  Her point that people shouldn't require a criminal record to test for ASPD seems good, since that allows a larger batch of people with these problems to be helped. She's also suggesting that there should be a standard treatment plan AND raises awareness that there is NO standard treatment plan for ASPD. Seems good so far.   It would be ridiculous to assume that this cause can be used to  "manipulate the masses". You can go on to assume that, but I feel like it's quite a stretch.   Genuinely no offence, but I think your perspective is why she went on the Insider channel in the first place, as it seems like this is the mainstream perspective on ASPD. ASPD is extremely stigmatized, to a point of detriment to where when a person with ASPD is trying to suggest a solution for ASPD to be handled more properly, it leads to people immediately assuming she's up to no good and is "lying".  Again, this isn't a personal attack on you, it's just that it seemed like a shame that this beneficial, good cause she's proposing is being shut down due to stigma. But oh well. We can agree to disagree and be on our merry ways lol, I've said my piece
 @nm7358  You can always trust a sociopath to be self-serving (except for weird times that they attach to certain people/things and act accordingly irrational). If telling the truth is beneficial, they tell the truth. if lying is beneficial, they lie. Most people act like that, anyway, sociopaths just take it to an extreme because it isn't an emotional decision, it's a logical one, so guilt isn't a factor. In this case, I would say she doesn't gain anything from lying, therefore I would bet she's telling the truth.
 @nm7358  When you write the thing you write, you have the goal of manipulation behind you.
 @nm7358  Yes my thoughts too exactly, like she fails to mention any selfishness for example
Sure, in that she is very biased. I would take everything she says with a grain of salt
unless they're the same (I am not a clinical psychologist) but they sound like a psychopath not a sociopath - and I'm pretty sure they do clinically distinguish the two despite labelling them both ASPD...
This is stupid. She uses a very favorable description of her disorder. Because who want's to be seen in a bad way?
@DerGrueneBaron  obviously it's favorable, but there's truth in this insothat sociopathy is extremely stigmatized and dehumanised that people that have a good shot being integrated into society well as a sociopath are shut down because they can't talk about it
​ @DerGrueneBaron she's describing her experiences. That's like saying a person with schizophrenia describing it is giving a favorable description of the disorder even though some might be very dangerous. It's a spectrum.
 @reelgesh51  the term ASPD is a nonsense term anyway. They'll have a new one in a couple of years
​@reelgesh51  as she said Sociopathy really isn't used as a diagnosis anymore, these days it's called ASPD.
Most sociopaths actually study psychology to learn more about how to manipulate people. My neighbour below has as well. She gets a kick out of destroying peoples lives and uses the knowledge she gained at university to further her own enjoyment and others destruction.
She's scary. My brother is like this and also worked very successfully in Mental Healthcare. He talks about what a good manipulator he is. I can only take him or others with "personality disorders" in small doses.
 @reelgesh51 Try again with proper grammar and proofreading. Start be defining the acronym you used. I’m the son of a psychiatrist and have an IQ of 141 and don’t know to what ASPD refers. Or TBF.
@avp6730  no people with schizophrenia feel empathy. You missed the point.
@prosamis "Dehumanizing" empathy and emotions make us human. How are they not less human than "normal" people? I have nothing against sociopaths, they didn't choose to be this way. What makes us different from computers/ ai if not emotions?
@ No, comma, people…or “no people (no comma)”? Either way this epitomizes terrible grammar and why punctuation matters.
Interesting but very scary... dont be in awe. Analize all she just told you...
well she still is sociopathic enough to make excuses for herself like when she said about compassion being a learned emotion and stuff.. (btw thats the easiest example picked out of a lot more half lies she said)
This. I'm impressed by your level of understanding. Anyone who trusts this woman is a fool.
 @nm7358  what does she, or any person for that matter, have to do in your eyes to earn the right to speak about their experience? This is a real way that many people feel. What is she supposed to do? Be more ashamed of being a sociopath or just be quiet? How is what you are saying helpful? This video is a way for people to have insight into this lived experience without active harm happening. I cannot tell where you are possibly coming from in your comment. It just comes across as judgemental and rude.
 @nm7358  Everything you said is spot on. The entire video screams "look at me!". Altho it's a great video, don't get fooled people.
 @nm7358  As she said herself, if you dont trust her, go and do the research yourself. There is nothing said in this video that you have any evidence of being a lie, and you still attack over it. There is a clear lack of empathy in even your statement towards her.
This isn't abnormal. Many people who earn sociology, psychology, or other similar degrees do so because they have a drive to understand themselves too.
@ I think if her goal was to make herself the centre of attention, she'd become a cult leader or something - she could, with her manipulative skills and tendencies. But she's not hiding who she is for the benefits of it, she's educating people about a disorder that's still very unresearched, sharing her own experience and bringing a broader perspective to an issue, even thought it opens her to judgement and rejection. It's not her fault she was born this way and I think it's great that she's self aware and works on herself to be a better person and who knows, it might be an inspiration to others with similar experience.  Also, if we - the people who don't have problems with empathy - won't be empathetic to those that do, how will they learn how to act to be a contributive part to society? :)
 @lycheeblossoms7443  it's a shame that you seem to be reasoning her lack of morality and flipping on someone that has every right to be wary of her and people like her
@prosamis  i don't believe sociopaths are good people. I believe she is inherently evil and self centered
@ True. Is her book more fact or fiction?  We'll never know
 @tzadik.  But what she's advocating IS morality? She's advocating to improve the system? I don't understand how it's immoral to ask to improve the system. And yeah sure, they have the right to be wary of her regardless. I said in my last sentence that "we can agree to disagree and be on our merry ways". I never claimed that they have no right to be wary of her, just only that I disagree with it. And even though I disagree with their sentiment of being wary, whatever, it's their choice
 @karasiem when you are empathetic to a person who doesn’t have empathy and sees you as an object you lose. Every time. Ask anyone who’s been at the receiving end of an abusive relationship. If they are really good they will have you believe you are the abuser.
"The fact that this guy owns a company that makes and sells drugs AND is a drug researcher himself makes his video a billion times more interesting!" No. It creates a conflict of interest. At least as far as his research is concerned.
 @nm7358  You're part of the reason why sociopathy/psychopathy/ASPD is still so stigmatized.
You should read her book. She basically self diagnosed herself as a kid
Seeing all the comments here about "ooof she sounds so smart it's scary" proves that words like psychopathy and sociopathy are indeed deeply stigmatised in society. Instead of an understanding and compassionate view people are "ohh this intellectual must be manipulating us". Some people saying she's self serving,...I don't think so. She's sharing her story bec she wants others like her to relate...and it's very effective bec i relate with her alot. I think this rising tide of anti intellectualism needs to be crushed and studied.
 @reelgesh51 and now we have people like you who blatantly disregard facts and come in spitting of an opinion.
Couldn’t agree more! This was one of the most fascinating conversations I’ve ever watched on YouTube
 @reelgesh51  you mean what label will some idiots who don’t understand things fully use until someone corrects them again?
 @prosamis  No they are not shut down in the least. They casually & easily hide & control & pursue power. They view normies as mice and they are the tiger/lion.
@LibsRockU  how they view others and how they're treated are two very different things
I wish I could be like that. I’m high functioning and have trouble finding a doctor that can help me. Can’t afford college though.
I wish I could be like that. I’m high functioning and have trouble finding a doctor that can help me. Can’t afford college though.
Do you really want a sociopath for a counselor? What a joke.
She's neither a sociopath nor a very apt psychologist. Any clinician knows not to try to diagnose yourself.
Well, it would help if you knew a thing or two about psychology so you could tell when she's talking out of her behind or making comparisons that are harmfully validating destructive behaviour by comparing it to things that are not destructive, but you don't so you're in awe and you swallow it all, hook, line, and sinker.  But here's a small example. Around 7:00 into the video she compared her relief of pressure when doing something destructive to OCD, and she says:   "They don't know why they do it but it relieves the pressure."  That is completely false and anyone with a rudimentary understanding of psychology knows that, and someone with a doctorate definitely knows that people with OCD very much know why they do what they do, because in their mind, if they don't do it terrible things will happen, and regardless of whether or not bad things happen your brain fears it. It's a  bit like how availability heuristics works, where it wouldn't even matter if you knew with certainty that your feelings have no basis in reality your brain still feels it as if it is real because it responds to thoughts and not to external reality.  It's also excusing her destructive behaviour as something taht is outside of her control, which she explained it is not. She knows it is more practical for her to play nice, but none of you noticed that she constantly avoided acknowledging that there are still real world consequences that are to her own disadvantage. That is one of her pathologies and it makes her a very lousy psychologist.  It's also comparing being destructive toward other people, potentially putting them in the hospital, deliberately to feel relieved when she destroys something meaningful like someone's life, with washing hands compulsively, which is harmless to other people and mostly harmless to the person who washes their hands. OCD can be very disruptive and even painful for a person suffering from it, but it doesn't deliberately put other people in danger or in a hospital. It's a really harmful comparisson that she uses to manipulate the viewer into thinking that her behaviour isn't as bad as it is.  And again, this is all just one tiny example. From the first 8 minutes I can give 7 or 8 more just like this one tiny example.  The reason you're in awe is because you know nothing about any of this and you should not start learning from a sociopath and then move on. Either learn more about psychology, or stay the heck away completely.
What it does is make it a billion times more terrifying.
​ @marniekilbourne608   Having already commented, I was finding myself on the verge of writing  almost your exact comment. I don't know if this is true of your reaction, but for me the sense of creepiness-- moderate to nearly severe anxiety -- has only hit me 10 minutes after watching this. I was probably holding my breath to some extent while watching and listening to her.
​@manuelh.4147  That's true! I'm a writer and I've never thought about my writing from that POV, but it's true.  Fiction is very much a form of manipulation  Thanks for that insight Understanding it  will help my writing, I have no doubt.
in awe? It's well proven that psychopaths and sociopaths love to work on those fields. It gives them leverage at manipulation.
 @jmcb00 it is true that psychologically normal can do bad things too.   There is a higher tendency towards it in sociopathy, which is what I’m hearing.
 @PalmelaHanderson  She's selling a book. She gets paid to talk about herself.
 @stylis666  I agree with everything you said. She is a perfect example of narcissism within ASPD. Let's try to normalize sociopathy is not the flex some people think it is.
@therealJamieJoy   Thanks! That's exactly my point! I'm glad that at least someone understands that.
I'm not in awe. Sociopaths rarely recognize there's anything wrong with them, so when she does, I think she's using it for manipulation. A psychologist without empathy, which is manipulative and deceitful and Impulsive and reckless, are in best case a bad psychologist, worst case a very dangerous one.
We can only be justified by the BLOOD of JESUS ​​CHRIST, Lamb of GOD, freely offered by GOD the Father to wash us from our defilements and thus, remove sin. GOD the Son JESUS ​​CHRIST came down into the world as a sacrificial Lamb for the payment of our sins, He thus fulfilled the Law of Moses which came from GOD.  For it is only by His Pure Blood shed on the Heavenly Propitiatory, that we obtain the Pardon of GOD. And by this Metanoia, this change of state of mind, that is to say Our Faith in His Redeeming BLOOD, we are saved.  Have faith in the REDEEMER BLOOD OF OUR SAVIOR JESUS ​​CHRIST before THE RAPTURE OF THE CHURCH establishes a new paradigm, this Friday, February 14, 2025, which will then require you to die as a martyr for CHRIST if you want to obtain your eternal salvation.
 @nm7358 excellent description! I was thinking how excellent it is to actually hear from a real life sociopath. I hung on and believed her every word. Sociopaths are not altruistic (if they are, there’s some personal gain) in it for them. Whatever her motives, it’s a glimpse into their world: or is it?
I was just thinking about that, but from the perspective of: does this individual assist patients? Has she had clients? You can make a very bad decision out of chosing to be treated by a spychopath but it would even be worse to be referred to one, not knowing what their condition is.
So how is it that she is allowed to practice her profession among the masses?
The number of sociopaths in psychology is a lot higher than you think.
 @marniekilbourne608  How could we be sure she is honest? because she say so?
 @sperk01  even newborn feel sorry for other newborns cry,so it is instinct.
​@OldskolFan I guarantee that when she broke in those houses, she either vandalized and/or stole things.
​ @Gullvivas How can we be sure anyone is honest? Everyone lies, for various reasons.
 @11maxfan Completely agree. It’s fascinating to me how these commenters judge her harshly for her lack of empathy but lowkey expose their own lack of empathy in doing so.
 @user-vo9kt5wy6v  i know what you mean, but in this case we’re experiencing empathy for someone who has no personal proximity to us. We’re speaking systemically — about finding ways to not generalize all people with this disorder and refrain from automatically stigmatizing ALL of them (while recognizing that many of them are dangerous and not to be trusted). This disorder, like many others, exists on a spectrum. I liked what she said about the two tests that exist - one for people with a criminal record and one for people without one. It just seems odd and something worth reforming and/or looking into more closely.  Idk. Random ramble of my thoughts. Again, I get where you’re coming from… if someone in your life has bad intentions with you, and you just keep giving them the benefit of the doubt, you’re probably gonna keep getting f’d bc it’s unlikely that they’re gonna change or suddenly see you as NOT an object. I feel like both things can be true (protecting yourself/having boundaries if someone displays sociopathic tendencies in your life AND looking systemically how we treat people w this specific disorder as a society). We should never tolerate abuse or mistreatment from friends, families, or partners for sure
 @reelgesh51 she explains this in the video. The diagnosis for sociopath and psychopath is only for criminals. This is a holdover from old dsm’s and pre dsm time. It’s used in the criminal justice and criminal psychology field either by the defense or the prosecutor but also in assessments for parole. That’s the what the rubric she is referring to for diagnosing it is for. It was replaced by aspd in the dsm to address some of the issues she talked about as far as requiring criminality goes. Wish she would’ve talked about aspd some more.
Tells you all you need to know about the psychiatric establishment. People with emotional problems often end up as therapists, trying to cure themselves.
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
psychology is no different than majoring in business or hospitality lol
 @nm7358  What you're describing is NOT sociopathy based on clinical science, but sociopathy based on entertainment media. Please stop talking about things you barely understand.
 @WoundedPride  This is a horrible comparison. Really think about it, try again and do better this time.
The whole field of psychology is founded on racism and just all around shady behavior. I gave up on my dream of a doctorate in psychology after I learned more about the field and how it developed in college. Just because someone had a doctorate in psych, doesn’t make them a good point of reference. Like at all.
@ Your comment is absolutely useless. Try using arguments instead of sharing your emotions.
You should watch Richard Grannon become lured into Sam Vaknin’s sick game before fauning over any ASPD person’s presentation.
 @global001 she has said she started taking psychology to learn more about herself and was initially disappointed she’d be learning more about others
 @DerGrueneBaron is this statement missing a coma? Or is this what you meant to say?
​ @sperk01  compassion and EMPATHY are LEARNED EMOTIONS!!!   Sad but true
 @malory1444   I read they use ASDS, but many some  distinctions between the two (sociopath & psychopath) are made?  As in the description of specific traits of ASDS, hence the distinction in diagnosis.  Or that was my understanding.
​ @bratanyaroslav3561  Did you watch the video? She addmitted multiple times to being selfish. She literally even said  "I was selfishly motivated," about her desicion to become a psychologist lmao.
 @reelgesh51  Stop it, reel. Don't MAKE UP stuff "tbf" and then run with it as a real truth that we must accept just so you can refrain from thinking about this critically. "OMG a volcano might have burnt up her childhood home so we should really think about how she could be more sympathetic!" NO!
 @lycheeblossoms7443  The problem is, most people aren't latching on to the notion of a sensical treatment plan. They're latching onto the benefits of them, too, not having to care what anyone else thinks, "how can I also do rude and not feel the burden of guilt? Also, great advice being so hands off with your kids, never having to teach them empathy or making them know you're proud of them." That's a huge problem. She's a pied piper for the weak of intellect.
 @nm7358 Yeah at 1st I heard that as was surprised but I wasn’t too worried until she said “authorized to tell you”. Is she saying that to hide how she acts or hiding bits to protect other people so malicious sociopaths don’t see the information.
 @nm7358 | The mistake you're making here is degrading this woman entirely to her affliction, even though she understands it better than you ever will.  Stop treating her like some Bond villain, as though she's incapable of recognizing her flaws and consciously correcting them. Sociopathy is treatable, it just usually goes untreated because most sociopaths won't admit they have the condition.
in awe of an evil person???? What twisted times we live in
Do you really believe her though?  Did you read her book?  Super sketchy
​@mrsrr She didn't diagnose herself, did you even watch this video?
​@nadiacolon1696  This series is called "Authorized Account", her saying "authorized to tell you" is just part of the intro for the series. jfc
 @heathera2874  stop using hate there is no hate here and you can't tell, so don't lie. Stating facts like she is, is not hating, pointing other sides she isn't stating isn't hating! You can't use even not like as you can't tell and no one said they hate or don't like her! Stop pushing victim hood cards on everyone.   She went public to share HER information that is her choice and ppl can hear and NOT ACCEPT all she has to say pointing out to becarful with her is normal.  She is not sick to get healthy!!! Are you d.imwitted!!  She said she mimics ppl and lies to ppl.  This isn't normal and you are taking her for face value on what she has to say!!!
I recall sitting in psychology class at University in the 80s and having a professor say  " the field tends to draw students who sense something is wrong with them and want to identify it "  ( These are the professionals we trust our deepest thoughts to )
@heathera2874  poor me twisting words n placating online, r u like her ? So this fake empathy as you feel like her?  If not twisting my words  as not "socio..." Imagine what she is doing and you can listen to the whole thing again.  Now your telling me if I'm broken 🤯🤣🤣🤣🤣 the most self-centered self righteous self gratifying Karen   I didn't understand something 🤣🤣🤣 comprenshion n victim hood card you are throwning on ppl and for yourself is outrageous   I pointed to fact she left out you pretend to be Jesus Christ 🤣 and lie acknowledge you inflated and attacked things and ppl      Aah disgusting  ppl who pick words  create messes lies nonsense online get over yourself she came online and said she did things you believe she is telling the whole truth that is bs as soon as I seen her I said something is wrong with her before she talked her face said it all in a few seconds
@donnieg9117  this is a reality of yours I believe from tv n movies n of course traumas n families normalizing all this I love my home  not a single crime except by some worker passing through  from different country tied up an old lady n robbed her n beat her ! Otherwise no crimes in decades  this is not normal tv movies n news remaking it so!!!
@noraa3428  just relating a  lesson taught us in college and my observation that the professors statement seems  true in my experience.
I’m grateful for this video. As humans, no one is exempt from various mental disorders and physical ailments. This should be treated as such…and this woman should be given compassion. I can’t imagine what it’s like to feel that “different,” especially as a child. It must be very tough. I agree to take everything that she says with a grain of salt because these individuals can have ulterior motives and tend to be very self serving; but that said, we should love all humans (and all organisms!), including those that are different from us. Thank you for this educational video and I hope that more people come forward and share their experiences with this uncommon condition!
Careers in the medical field as doctors and nurses (of all practices - though psychologist and surgeon are popular in media) are one of the top fields that attract psychopaths, actually. Along with CEOs/businessmen, lawyers, salesmen, and police officers, to name a few. They are positions of power that don't necessarily require empathy (aside from, say, nursing, but that can be faked) and actually supports a lack of one to get ahead and not get stressed out emotionally like someone with more empathy might.
They say people who major in psychology are just trying to diagnose themselves.
i bet you are not in awe as much as her husband.  may god have mercy on his soul.
 @donnieg9117   sorry🌻 I didn't mean to tag you (for others 🙄 this is what accountability looks like). Yt is playing with comments I find my comments edited right after posting.  I agree with. Appreciate a thought shared. As Mentioned also something simple something important if you care about ppl and some ppl. Like to be crusaders for anyone they don't know.  P.s. for readers crusaders were not like the movies portray. Papal reformers, peace and truce of god movement++++ ✝️🆚✝️.
You can really hear she is not normal. She is still a very cold hearted person with no regards to other people. She is even saying that the young killed she stabbed " was in the wrong place at the wrong time" as it was the victims own fault. She only consider herself not the people around her, it like she can't understand that people around her have feelings as well. People are just objects - so destroying a object is the the same as destroying a human.
I think she is conning us. Can anyone find her public profile? Source of her PhD? Job history? She seems to be good at selling her book and that's it.
Alot of doctors have sociopathy or lack of empathy to certain degree.. Not generalizing but its just the truth.
This comment was going so well, until “I’m in awe”. So destructive.
 @Kali_Ma_  The ones I've met majoring in it are mostly pretty unhinged themselves when they're interested in criminal psychology. Only one that seemed somewhat sane but super religious who was interested in family counseling.
Actually, not really. A lot of people with personality or mental disorders go into psychology/psychiatry.
It makes it full of deceptive lies is what it does.
​ @andychrist2922  Agreed. I think empathy is inborn because it's absolutely vital to the way humans evolve to survive in large groups. You cannot do that without some way to feel another's emotions. But it's not just humans, all mammals, and possibly birds and others, demonstrate empathy, show sadness, grief, etc.
I highly doubt shes a psychologist ... Considering sociopath isn't a scientific term. It should've been diagnosed with psychopathy Or ASPD
@ you need to finish the video… she has a doctorate
 @ThePencilPusher  If you watched this video you would have seen where she explains that sociopath is not a *diagnosis*.
 @daCubanaqt  That completely backs up what I said. Thanks for agreeing.
It makes me scared. How many of the psychologists that I saw were sociopaths and I didn't know it?
 @loft27ss  Not a care in the world. Yet she cares to dress up.
 @nm7358 this is such an ignorant and stigmatized pov like did you not just watch this entire video???
 @nm7358  The way you're talking is what's wrong with common discourse about psychology, and especially Cluster B people, who are constantly demonized via pop psychology BS. These are trauma responses, mainly, and most people who become aware of their Cluster B disorder are suffering and agonizing, a lot.
 @CooperJeanne  Everyone suffering from Cluster B PDs are not "evil", get educated.
​ @nm7358  I was thinking the same. Every time I watch videos about "Interview with a sociopath" I find comments admiring the person, acknowledging their inteligence and even admiring them for "helping others". I think we have to be careful with our words around a socipath.
 @nm7358 she might be a sociopath but she is also a human being. I think you’re forgetting that. She’s not an evil monster in every facet of her life just because of her diagnosis.
 @0FFICERPROBLEM  If "get educated" means excusing evil, than no thank you.
 @Camass33  A diagnosis does not excuse bad behavior. Psychology these days is so unregulated turning any bad behavior into some kind of diagnosis, some kind of excuse for perpetrating bad deeds. There are consequence to bad behavior, and should be held accountable., not creating excuses for doing them.
 @CooperJeanne  sorry but where did I ever say a diagnosis excuses bad behavior? You’re not reading what I’m saying. Just because someone is a sociopath doesn’t mean they’re a bad person. She has done bad things in her life because she was young and did not know how to navigate a world that does not accept her, but she has actively worked to find better coping mechanisms and not do things like that anymore. Demonizing every single thing someone does just because they’re a sociopath is unhelpful. All she was doing was explaining her story and experience and you said we can’t trust anything she says just because she’s a sociopath. That is absurd.
 @CooperJeanne  I don’t think you actually watched the video, because she clearly explains what she was going through, that she knows it’s bad, and she’s worked to better her behavior. But in your opinion just because she’s a sociopath she doesn’t deserve to be treated with the respect of a human?
 @Cammoon7  bingo!  All toxic people are emotionally IMMature, stakes in self centered toddler age.
​ @marydlutes1792  why is personality disorders in quotes? Does this include anyone with BPD?
All this stigma on aspd is a form of ableism. All these people attacking her for not being born with empathy are not practicing empathy themselves.
@TheOceanBearer   There are many personality disorders: avoidant, histrionic, dependant, and antisocial, etc.  BPD - I & II, depressive - major & persistent and etc. are mood disorders.  Personality and Mood disorders have different pathophysiologies.
​ @TheOceanBearer I think it's not about not practicing empathy towards these people, but being cautious about not letting empathy disillusion you from their intentions. Sociopaths are dangerous and I feel that it is proper that empathy should be an exception towards such people for the sake of our own security.
Or she just escalated her skills at lying and deception with an unassailable degree that places her as an expert among normal people?
And does sociopath things like lie for her benefit or skew the truth slightly. So can't exactly trust a lot of this video
 @DerGrueneBaron  Yes but she says people with sociopathy - at least the moderate or low level cases - are able to have or to learn emotions and empathy to a certain extent. And "dehumanizing" is referring to portraying sociopaths as monsters that are evil and dangerous. Someone is considered "evil" if he does evil things out of evil motivations. If someone is just selfish but doesn't feel the urge to do damaging things to others , why should I consider this person to be a monster? Just because there are dangerous and criminal sociopaths out in the world, not every sociopath has to be like this.
 @CooperJeanne  Well, it is my belief in a higher wisdom that the Universe is fundamentally good and that while distortions and lies can lead to evil, the truth is nonetheless always underneath. Hurt people hurt people, and that is a cliche yes, but it is true.   Every evil human is a damaged child, and while that does not absolve anyone of natural responsibility, it does reveal to me a type of profound perspective on our human dynamic of victim/abuser.   Perhaps I am wrong.
 @0FFICERPROBLEM  Yea you are totally wrong about the universe, a. the universe is a mystery b. good and evil and eveyrthing in between exist at the same time, saying the universe is fundamentally good is naive, and that's a nice way of saying it. If perspective of victim and abuser dynamic helps you escape it great but if its gives you sympathies to the abuser than no.
I’m glad she’s putting this out there. I am not a sociopath but I grew up in a bad neighborhood that seemed to have a few people exhibiting sociopathic behaviors. Dr. Patric claims that there’s not enough research/resources spent investigating sociopathic tendencies/behaviors, and how it should be addressed and treatment implemented, as she claims that people with antisocial traits struggle, and that they need help too.
 @lycheeblossoms7443 I know of a child who may be autistic, but his behavior only looks like ASPD, but maybe it just might be, according to his grandma. He’s punched his teacher over 30 times and was suspended many times since kindergarten. Maybe it’s just anger problems. When he grows up, he’s going to likely beat up his mother. His father, who has visitation rights, was physically abusive to him. The mom still lets the dad have access despite the child abuse. People like him need help. The U.S. doesn’t prioritize mental health care.
 @bratanyaroslav3561 She’s biased because it’s anecdotal. I wish she’d present on some of her research or any peer-reviewed published work.
reading allot of these comments  i cant help but wonder about witches lepers and people with AIDS  the first reaction is danger, fear, anger, hate, get away from me,  quarantine "it" keep "it" away from me  which i get  but also it is and emotional reaction that just as in those other cases actuly impedes our ability to deal with "it"
 @nm7358  love your comment. it was first came into my mind after 20 minutes i indeed literally fell asleep and didnt watch furter
Really? My experience is that most people with degrees of psychology or related fields have gone into them to figure out their own problems.  A cassic "Why am I different and crazy?" situation.
​ @nm7358 I have questions about your comment. Who do you think is coaching her? Do you believe sociopaths are the only people that lie? Just asking
You should check out the TED talk by the neurologist woman that had a stroke, it's fascinating in the same way. Easy to find since it's one of the top rated TED talks. Old lady.
I read her book and I came away kind of doubting she was a sociopath. It just seemed like she was on the spectrum
Psychology does kind of attract sociopaths lol.  It's a way to better understand how people tick.  You should look into Jim Fallon's TED talk "Exploring the mind of a killer" - he's a professor of psychiatry and human behavior, and a neuroscientist.  And a diagnosed sociopath.  EDIT: Oh yeah, she even touches on the psychology link at 24:16
 @outogetyougotyou5250  They do have similarities but I think most people these days do think sociopaths are psychopaths or vice versa, I notice a lot of people get them mixed up.
 @YesPhoPlz  I agree with their being mix up but from what I have read despite the overlap there are also key differences too.
 @DerGrueneBaron while still inclined to hurt people with no remorse. And we are hurt by them but we are supposed to feel sorry for them? And feel ashamed of ourselves for disliking them?
 @sapientquanta759 yeah,she wants us to drop our mental radar at detecting harmful people and their malignant behaviors which is essential to protect us and can live  instead of hurt or killed.
@TheTwoTwoForRealit’s all about me me me. Nothing about the victims or r the receiving end of their actions.
 @ultravioletgaia people need to have some common sense instead of imbalanced tunnel vision intellectualism.
 @derekcox6531 yeah, it’s traumatizing in itself that you express emotions but are met with a cold stone wall.
 @capybarawarrior1 so you are saying you keep the guard up, while suggesting others as a group, to lower their guard?
 @MS-uj5ui i was gonna say, i dated a psychiatrist and lets just say that was the craziest experience of my adult life (also the most painful).
 @nm7358 man, you need to learn how to forgive yourself.  We see all your pain in one sentence.  You are not equip to deal with anyone!  I would NOT hire you to help anyone!  So much anger you have.
 @DerGrueneBaron  The idea that emotions alone separate humans from AI is an oversimplification, as human cognition and decision-making go beyond just feelings. Consciousness, free will, creativity, moral reasoning, and deep interpersonal connections, also play a role.  While sociopathy (or antisocial personality disorder) is characterized by a lack of typical emotional responses like empathy or guilt, it doesn't necessarily make someone "less human." Their humanity isn't defined by what they lack but by their ability to think, act, and make choices like any other person. The distinction between sociopaths and "normal" people is more about emotional processing and moral reasoning rather than humanity itself.
 @LDJ-r8e   You missed the whole point of this video. Dismissing the reasons why people are this way ignores the complexity of human behavior. Many factors such as biological, psychological and environmental contribute to how people develop, and understanding them can lead to better solutions than just exclusion. She is trying to bring awareness so there is more support for these type of people. This way they can get the help they need to be a healthier part of society.  If society starts labeling certain people as unworthy of inclusion based on traits they can't help, where does it stop?
 @nm7358 you’re assuming so much. The only sociopaths u know of are serial killers so ofc you assume they all must be
​@TheTwoTwoForRealEvery video on YouTube screams "Look at Me!". I found the interview interesting and I appreciate it. I didn't think it screamed Look at Me. But I'm not a drama queen.
​ @DerGrueneBaron ummm nothing she is saying about herself is very favorable. What r u talking about?
Her interview also makes me feel, if chanelled properly, her skills and mindset can be beneficial in ways we never thought of...
 @outogetyougotyou5250  Yea, they could overlap too. Yea for sure. I think it's just due to misinformation/the media, and a mixture of being ignorant when it comes to being educated on disorders.
 @nm7358  You didn't watch this video, did you? If you think all sociopaths have the goal of manipulation whenever they "open their mouth", then you've not even taken a single psychology class, let alone have a PhD like she does. I'd say people should rather distrust YOUR words over hers, given your lack of knowledge and the willingness to learn (as you clearly learned nothing from this video)
I find it very sad that there are people here reacting with immediate, unbending suspicion of Dr. Gagne simply because of what she is.
Ses is really interesting for sure and this is great information about this , but im not sure she should be therapising others...
You're an amazing person, I live in the paradoxical realm myself. I know how it happened, I'm very introspective and insightful. I am a Sociopath who navigates the labyrinth of this cosmic drama by doing "Shadow Work. It's alchemical when once I embrace my demons and angels. They all have the same origins and need to be acknowledged and embraced. Once folded into myself my dark becomes my light, it's all convertible energy. Thanks for the hit!
Most days, I can't tell if I'm a legitimate socio/psychopath/other abnormal state, or constantly dealing with a permanent conga line of naive and/or emotionally immature adults, and starting all interactions with most processes shut off is a must to prevent my spirit and sanity from constantly draining out.
A lot of people with aspd and npd have very high paying jobs! Not all of them are criminals or abusive people
u clearly didnt read her book. she cant control being a sociopath, but thru understanding herself better she’s able to be a MOTHER, wife, sister, etc.
 @jmcb00 Pathological liars will just lie sometimes about the MOST trivial of things. It may not hit you for a year or so until you learn that some “fun fact” that person said was a complete lie. And then everything else unravels. Someone with any kind of pathological lying should never have a job where they have any kind of power over another person..
 @fioregiallo I’m curious how you’d explain nepotism in clinical and academic fields? How would that have worked if true?
hey people in the replies of this comment yall think we could stop dehumanizing people with cluster b personality disorders
Aspd is actually the term not sociopath. Sociopath or psycopath are just more widely known so easier for average audience. Also narcissism is pretty much always included with aspd as you're self focused
Also from reading comments here I don't think anyone replying is that intelligent
 @stylis666 that’s not true, not everyone with ocd has a disaster clause in their compulsions. MANY people with ocd have compulsions without clear motivations. But I guess the Armchair psychologists wouldn’t know that would you doctor?
 @katherinegordon8088 because people with diagnoses are obviously allowed to practice psychology? Can those with heart conditions not be a doctor?
@ that is different because a heart condition poses no threat to their patients, but who can really know if a psychopathic doctor will stock or otherwise harm for pleasure a vulnerable human coming to them for help?
She's not being totally transparent. She even admits to it at the beginning of the video, "I'm putting on an act right now." She's not telling us the deep stuff. She also wants the audience to think, "She's a sociopath that knows she's a sociopath. She has a degree in psychology and has it under control." That is a massive manipulation right there. I assure you that she doesn't have it under control. These people cannot be helped. They can only be trained to function. The part she forgets to mention is that sociopaths are capable of feeling emotions, but only for themselves. They will cry their eyes out, get depressed or angry with extreme emotions. She wants you to believe that a sociopath doesn't. That is absolutely not true! They just can't feel emotions for others, except in a negative way. They have no compassion for others. They can fake it, but it doesn't last long. Sometimes it takes the death of a close loved one, someone related to the sociopath, before others realize that they're a sociopath. They literally have no compassion for others, even for a person on their deathbed. She studied psychology to learn how to manipulate people more. It's always me, me, me going on in their mind. I know this sounds cruel but you really need to know a sociopath to understand one.
How do you know what she's saying is true, compulsive liar
@ girl huh ? None of that has anything to do with antisocial personality disorder. Your comment is irrelevant to the actual disorder that we’re talking about, you’re vastly  uneducated on the reality of what that disorder entails. There is nothing inherently malicious about having ASPD nor does it mean that you have malicious intent towards others that’s just literally not what we’re talking about.
I love the amount of people in these replies assuming anything with sociopathy is a bad person. Goes to show the stigma hasn't gone away at all.
@ it’s crazy isn’t it. If any of these YouTube psychologist actually read the DSM-5 they wouldn’t see any of these “symptoms” under ASPD but I guess it makes them feel better to project their feelings about their ex or their abusive parent onto a total stranger in some YouTube comments
I am not in awe. She will give a biased account. There are unbiased groups who understand antisocial behavior better but I am not authorized to say. She can not acknowledge the poor childhood which created her condition. Sounds like her parents are sociopaths too and she had significant neglect and powerlessness.
 @nm7358  Probably one of the most mentally devastated comment I've read this decade.
Yes this! I’m at the beginning so can’t comment really but it sounds easier to be her than me. Whether I’m used to it or not.
Same with me , I can be in a great mood and my husband who seems pissed everday can affect my attitude.
I get so affected by people honking at me. It's just them being annoyed. I have to always tell myself they must be having a bad day and took it out on me. It has seemed to help me not get shaken up.
This sounds exhausting. You definitely are not responsible for anyone's feelings, but your own.  I'm very direct, and don't use the fluffy gloves. Now I'm wondering how many people I met haven't slept all night because of an interaction I forgot in 30 minutes. (I'm not a sociopath btw, I'm a regular human).
I'm with you; I find it difficult to separate other people's dissonance from my own. Always have.  I'm getting better.  there is such a thing as "too empathic".  Finding my center. if something is happening, it's "my job" to fix it  No, it is not. Everyone has their own little universe. I now have a "do not engage" setting.  Wow.....they are angry. Huh.  Done.
Yes. As an empath/infj personality. Your comment spoke to me so powerful. It's the hardest thing for me to understand that others don't think like me. I can say something and hurt someone's feelings and hurt about it for years. So I tend to question if people love me when they can hurt me, and not apologize or understand how bad they affected me. It can cause mistrust. Especially family. I tend to be very observant of motives behind actions.  Something I am still learning is that we all see and experience life differently. And are different personalities. As we learn others, we can better accept the world around us. And learn we can pray for, but are not responsible for changing/fixing others.
I’m grateful for YOU sharing your perspective too. I also have high empathetic anxiety.
Autism? ADHD? Both of those very commonly have hyper empathy as a symptom.
I appreciate your comment because it is difficult for me to disassociate from the anger and frustration of others.
That's not "empathy", that's trauma, hypervigilance, and a lack of boundaries. Sounds to me like you think other people's anger is your fault and responsibility, that if somebody around you is angry, it must be because YOU did something wrong.
You are at the other far end of the spectrum, a very admirable state to posess.❤
@steveclark2205  this was such an incredibly kind thing to say... Thank you 🙂 🙏
 @IreneWY  it's so great for us to hear both sides too... I admire that people have the ability to be direct and it's a skill I have to work on... I have to remind myself that for a lot of people, being direct is something they admire in others and they don't necessarily like that I'm going out of my way to avoid a conflict rather than directly addressing it
 @ittybittyrampagingcommittee  I was diagnosed with ADHD 2 years ago - definitely think that plays a part in it for sure
This does not sound like empathy to me. There may be more to the story that what you wrote, but from your text I must say it seems more like you are afraid of other peoples reaction, than you are empathetic for them. For example "This woman could chew me out at a store and I'd feel it for weeks", why? Is it because you are afraid of conflict and think it's uncomfortable, or because you are empathetic?  "As someone who is empathetic to the point where it causes me anxiety and I have to constantly remind myself to disassociate from other people's anger or frustration" This sounds like fear, not empathy.
​ @IreneWY sounds like you're a bit harsh or abrasive when you interact and call it being direct.  But you realize you influence the feelings of others rather than cause them.  That's true.  So you might be a gentler or more supportive influence without compromising your integrity.   You have a conscience.  And you use it.  Don't confuse it with ego and simply think you are so powerful people are still reeling over your intimidating personality.  Most people go from hurt to pissed off and then kick you out of their heads for not paying the proverbial rent.  😅  It's good when we knock ourselves down to height bc it means we are learning and doing a good job at it.
The braking into homes.. it was the final release bc for a moment, that desire to break a boundary placed before you .. was broken..  there is a need to break down a boundary .. and this , breaking into a home , treated for a moment that purpose
The braking into homes.. it was the final release bc for a moment, that desire to break a boundary placed before you .. was broken..  there is a need to break down a boundary .. and this , breaking into a home , treated for a moment that purpose
⚠Sometimes we live N☢ particular way but our own🥥🌬💨🌀🔥🏹💣💥🍍...Sometimes we visit your country and live in your h🙆‍♀me🛖🌮..Sometimes we ride on your horses🦫, sometimes we walk alone🐧...Sometimes the songs🎵🎶 that we hear:person-turqouise-waving:are just songs🪓⚖🪚 of our 🎯wn.
@deanaburnham9571  we don't live in a fluffy bunny world and I have neither the time nor the mental capacity to go around, wrapping everything in bubble wrap for people. You're responsible for your own feelings, and if you can't deal with directness, that's on you. I guarantee you that I will neither remember nor feel bad about it. My comment was not a reflection of guilt or bad conscience, but rather amusement at how much energy people waste on pondering over stupid and meaningless everyday interactions.
 @danikeir  nothing good will come for you, if you avoid conflict. It'll only get worse. If you don't respect your boundaries, no one will.
Yes, a person can have too much empathy but being chewed out and internalizing it out isn't about empathy, it's about emotional overreaction to other people. You probably learned this reaction from your family and need to work on letting such thinking go. Valid criticism should be met with understanding and a desire to improve oneself (or not -your choice) and invalid criticism should be dismissed as it serves NO purpose other than to make the other person feel superior if you buy into it.
Develop better boundaries. Often times this is a result of childhood trauma or a lack of personal boundaries. "Empaths"   are just people who haven't developed strong enough personal boundaries to let other peoples moods affect their own.
@panamaanomalie8402  now you're just wildly interpreting things, while pretending I said them 👍👍 is it fun?
@lindatullos9430  who said anything about chewing people out?  Also, please keep your "profound psychological analysis of me" , that you based on random inspirational and quotes from Instagram and one YouTube comment by me - to yourself. It's incredibly silly and not in a good way. You sound extremely pretentious and I'm sure that was not the effect you were trying to go here 😉
Omg. That's soooo me!! I wish I could feel less. It's like we are in the opposite spectrum and it's miserable.
When I feel people have extreme high empathy I get anxious because I feel like if I ever show bad emotions it becomes this crazy feedback loop. I grew up with a very unempathetic mother who needed big expressions from me to not ignore my feelings and needs. So now I express myself strongly but when someone has a lot of empathy I see I’m doing to much, I just wish that people would understand that I don’t mean to cause harm
 @IreneWY it IS exhausting. It’s, sadly or otherwise, how some of us are wired. Even at my age (middle aged) I can emotionally connect back to being bullied in my early teens.  This said, I like this speaker’s idea of “manageable mischief”. I could see this working for overanxious too.
@IreneWY  As you may be able to read, if not bot: User wrote quote "It's very helpful to be reminded that we're are not responsible for other people's emotions or reactions. ... Relating to the so called 'Sociopath's' perspective.  Imho that's a twist in again being taken over by exact the mentioned perspective. Some Empaths need to improve their setting of boundaries, Dissempaths as  harmful people need to apply responsibility for their lustful damaging behaviour.
The Pathos understanding has only just begun.  These labels may help as much as they damage.
Hyper empathy is commonly found in those with BPD, Autism and CPTSD
@ I think anyone that uses that word, which is a euphemism, fails to comprehend their own psyche.  Furthermore, you are adding words to my comment, demonstrating your own psychopathy & sociopathy.
@panamaanomalie8402 how is all that pretentious word salad at all related to anything that I said?  Hiding behind smart words, because you can't express an opinion properly is not the flex you think it is 😉
 @ittybittyrampagingcommittee  Interesting, I was not aware of that. I always feel a deep desire to support other people, but lose motivation when I feel unsupported.
yea the difference is insane. her feeling PEACE, from breaking into someones home and just sitting there 🤯 omggg i cannot imagine anything more stressfull. incredible. such a valuable video, this explains my mothers and exes behaviours sooo well. i could never understand how someone could dishonor themselves to a point of hurting others, but that "honor"/conscience clearly just isnt there. its like a upside down world, whats good to normal people is bad for them and whats evil to us is the only thing that gives them peace....? 😮 pretty dang scary. its hard for me not to wonder if theres something spiritual to it.... do we have the same souls...? how? but amazing woman and video im so greatful!
Same, I'm overly empathic but I don't envy the sociopaths. I don't think they can feel true joy the same way we do
Same, I know exactly how you feel. Wiring in the office is pure anxiety
I describe myself as pathologically empathetic, especially with animals. It causes me so much pain. I wish I could turn it off.
I relate to both you and this video. I feel like as a kid I was so empathetic that it hurt and then after I got cpstd it just stopped. I feel so numb I relate to almost everything she said and it scares me for no other reason than I feel like I lost something I'm told I should value and I'm just tired now
Your ability can help a great many people 😃. What I've learned to do when the emotions from another person gets to be too much, is I focus on a plant. Like a tree, a flower, even grass. Touch the plant too if you can. Focusing on the plants emotions will help you calm down. Plants are so much quieter and basic.  I hope this helps. 😊❤️🙏
​CandyCoated96 I can relate to this. I am like you, observant of motives behind action, always one step ahead. it's like already knowing the ending of a movie when  the director gives a slight hint. it's all instinctive and not in a calculating way, and I can't help it. I also get frustrated if people I love don't think the same way I do. I get upset and feel disgusted when they act rude/insensitive to another person. I  take the side of the underdog, referee to fights to disperse tension. I avoid being the cause of a fight between 2 parties. At the same time, I'm very gullible to someone good in manipulation. it's ironic.
27. 30 " I don't think anyone should make decisions based on being liked"
Same here! I am like the complete opposite of sociopath and can internalize other people’s emotions. It’s exhausting and I don’t want to be in public because of it! 🙈
@ @courtneyflows If I may, practice apathy. A part of the pathos that receives little attention.
Really? To walk all over others and immorality is not just the human condition
Y’all please do yourselves a kindness and read or get the audiobook for the 4 agreements. It lifted such a heavy weight from my heart, I spent every day in agony trying to be deserving of love and respect and the pain was unbearable. I listened to the audiobook for the first time while I was painting (don’t look at your phone, you need to listen to it) and I go back and listen regularly now. It just gave me a set of ideas that I could apply to myself and feel like I was doing my best, and feel like I was deserving of kindness, and self respect. Anyways y’all need to seek out healing for those parts within you that you are capable of repairing before your own low self worth leads you into a place you’ll get trapped in, suffering, for life. Lean in HEAVY into learning self acceptance
Also as an empath , knowing when someone doesn't like me even when they portray otherwise, makes me kinda jealous of her trait.
Ways to handle your own emotions are great for highly empathetic people. You've got more room for your emotions when they're triggered by your empathy.
@ The Four Agreements by Don Miguel Ruiz. I’ll link separately in case YT doesn’t like it
Yeah this video is truly special seeing it from that lense, like the perfect person to deliver the message. I always thought overly myself as overly empathetic and people pleasing, and the older I get I find myself disassociating. Always had anti-social tendencies yet it was after I saw a Dr. K interview if a young man thinking he was a psychopath, and with Dr. K explaining to him that it was a coping mechanism for him to be dissociative that it all started to make sense. So this video is basically the other part I needed and will definitely read her book and follow the literature bread crumbs 🙂
Same here  it feel s like a big of a curse sometines to have this mutch of feelings as non, people  s energy have been stearing me my whole life
I’m overly empathetic also.  Age has helped, I’m 60 , it’s not as crippling as it was when I was younger but it still causes sleepless nights and obsessing about what I did or said or acted like to cause a certain reaction from someone.  It’s exhausting.
Same. I had to train myself in the exact INVERSE way this woman did; I felt the things around me TOO MUCH. I have also always been attracted to partners that appear to have sociopathic tendencies; Basically they would be the LEAST triggering person, emotionally, for me to be around. And I in turn do not EXPECT them to behave "normally".
 @TheSweetnsalty1  I have found the solution to this!  Simply trade in pissy husband for a cat (or two, or three) 😸
​@IreneWY 100%. These kinds of people would be difficult to have in your life constantly walking on eggshells wondering what normal interaction is a huge trigger for them. Although im more intrigued as to how much of that is actual empathy and how much of it is just autism.  People put too much weight on things people say/do nowadays or how they're perceived by them and it's always screams patheticness rather than vigilance.
 @danikeir  I feel ya on that. Empathy can be a disability sometimes.
 @jenniferramos6398 maybe you’re just a bad driver sometimes. Lol that’s what the horn is for... to alert other drivers when they are not showing awareness. I know I deserve to be honked at every once in a while. 😂😂
Nothing OK about having no empathy. This woman should not be your model. If she scared about the idea that she might kill someone, it wouldn’t be because she thought that was a bad thing to do. It because she’d be afraid of getting caught. No you don’t need this lady as your model..
I enjoyed reading your post. I have blunted emotions, and I am dismissive avoidant attachment style. Here is the truth : Whilst you sound like a very compassionate and a very decent person , in the end, those " virtues " you posses, will ultimately do more harm to you than you might imagine.  Your level of empathy is too high!   Your empathy is so intense that it is giving you anxiety.  Are you a good person ? Yes.   Are you a happy person ? I suspect not.  I can't see how you could be happy in a world where all you feel is other peoples pain and heartache.  You need to stop putting everyone else before you. You need to work on your self confidence too. Stop being a people pleaser.               " People pleasers " always put the needs/wants of others before their own..
No one is an empath it's not a real thing if you're overly emotional you need to work on your self control and understanding so you can get your emotions in check
This is me too. I have way too much empathy that gives my anxiety, to the point that people around me  exploit it
⁠​⁠ @IreneWY that’s great, you do you. No need to be dismissive or to equate not being sociopath to being normal. We all have our hang ups
Thank you I’m highly emphatic and can relate to this. I appreciate this comment
I'd be serious in unpacking the responsibility people gave you for their happiness and unhappiness when you were a child..   I was burdened with this and then associated additional stresses as also my fault, my responsibility.   How free i feel to let go of this. Go back to the part where empathy is a taught emotional reaction.  We are largely taught to be empathetic to people, to animals etc.. and I see a lot of people say they are highly intuitive and empathetic like is a prophetic ability.. its just a taught behaviour to read the room.. and when we see it overtake our lives, manifesting as problematic responses and activities, its a survival skill. And we do well to unpack that!!
​ @valkyrie1066 Yes!! She mentioned early in the talk about studying and being able to label and separate people's behaviours!!
@danikeir  I think diplomacy is what you describe with " going out of your way to avoid (unnecessary) conflict" and that's actually a very good, important skill. Don't doubt yourself just because others are unnecessarily abrasive and maybe don't get your higher and more complex ability to navigate such situations. Diplomats i.e. get paid a lot for that and also get a lot of perks, but most of them are men and we need way more diplomacy instead of weapon trades in politics worldwide.
She has now become an authority on the psychopathological disorder to which she is subject. Not very different from what Ted Bundy did, who became interested in psychopathology and studied psychology, according to a documentary about the serial killer.
@antwortmir4451   I didn't see that in the movies about him. Do you remember which documentary that was?
100% same I’m OVERLY empathetic, etc, it’s way too much honestly so I am always working at setting better emotional boundaries.
 @danikeir  make people regret walking all over you, empaths, we can do it politely but it must be direct and we cannot run away to resent later and people please in these situations and expect to lead happy lives. This is a quote (not mine) I like : givers must have boundaries because takers never do! Takers are anyone with a sob story making it someone else's sob story or trying to offload their failure by being arrogant and bullying those who cannot fight back. Also predators always bring up why they deserve more empathy! Be safe!
Empathetic doesn't mean weak or naive. You should work on those qualities.
It's so fascinating that this story helped me understand something about my own feelings/brain. The right side of my brain is dominant, which makes me dyslexic, creative, chaotic, a good problem solver and more empathetic than most (I think 😅, you can never know for sure how someone feels). And I know I'm a pleaser or at least I tend put others before myself (jezelf wegcijferen in Dutch). She said something about people pleasers wanting to be well liked. But I thought: that's not it because I don't really care what people think about me. Then I realised I want everybody around me to be happy because otherwise I feel their unhappy emotions. And for me that is worse than feeling unhappy myself because I'm good at cheering myself up
so... you're convinced you're a "super empathetic" person, but you're purposely just assuming what that other woman could actually be feeling in a hypothetical interaction... Make it make sense.  P.s. you're not "better than" other ppl for having 'anxiety inducing levels of empathy' - that's called hypervigilance and it's a trauma symptom.
That sounds like a made-up story, lol.  Remember, she's a sociopath.  By her own admission, she lies.
I don’t understand why she would do that.. or the link with sociopathy… maybe it’s to feel rebellious and cause she’s lacking  embarrassment
20:12 this is present in other neurological disabilities. (Present at conception and born with.)This is not a made up story.
14:29 just the way she says it lol. See this is why I near never include sociopaths while whinging about clinical psychopaths and clinical narcissists. Sociopaths can actually be pretty cool and great company, just know your limits and don't test theirs. Like you can tell she's really unintentionally funny. So she stole some cars so what, they was drunk wasn't like these people needed them at the time. Lol.
​ @williamyoung9401  like 😲 WOW what she is saying has totally went over your head. I do hope you grow into a better person in the future.
thats the source of her sociopathy. As a baby her parents probably told her to stfu and wait because she had to go to the bathroom and they ignored it because it was inconvenient. Since it happened as an adult it was most likely a long standing issue and her parent(s) showed her no concern for it and anything else she was feeling growing up. Hence the 'pressure' to not be a bother, be normal or be out of sight. I'd put money on the reason she stabbed the kid was because the kid called her a pee pants or something similar to that.
Check out Soft White Underbelly. Same style, uninterrupted telling of people's stories.
I don’t know you, but I feel very similarly. Basking in the warmth of a genuinely lived life and the self-discoveries that happen. Check out David Hoffman. His interviews are on here, and they are really quite something.
 @jonbuono7826 Ted talks are very different from this. They have an audience and the speakers always seem to have prepared their presentation weeks in advance.  This video is just a person sitting in a room with an interviewer (who’s voice is edited out) and is just telling their story.  One feels like a performance and the other a conversation you can have on your own couch
 @denaamisdaan   That's not the description of the OP. The description is, "...uninterrupted format where awesome people, by any standard, get time to just explain themselves..." That's just a person talking which could be Ted. Nice try, though.
Until the net doesn't like it and your erased over an opinion
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
​ @leilaniz5909  She has a doctorate degree in psychology. Even if you have negative feelings about Sociopathy, she can be judged on her educational background to be considered someone interesting to listen to on a psychology topic.
This is how TV journalism used to be when I was young. They didn't have to worry about "clicks and likes," keeping it short, and dumbing down the material. As a teen, I wanted to be a Barbara Walters or a Morley Safer and Mike Wallace, but I was steered into what is today called STEM because of my good grades in science and math. My unsolicited advice for young people: Please fight against being pigeon-holed into something that isn't you .
Don't forget that sociopaths are toxic, pathological liars, manipulative and charming. Even though she made her sociopathy seem mild, but she's called a sociopath for a reason. Be careful.  This one is smart.
​ @citytrees1752 ​​ You may not, I, however, am reading this woman's book. Why are you commenting and reading comments if you don't find this subject matter important?
​@AndyHoward soft white underbelly feels exploitative. The moment the man starts his questioning, it's never objective. It feels perverse. Took me about three episodes to put my finger on it. My last episode was the one where he interviewed child prostitutes. Asking a girl about her 13 yo sex life in detail is absolutely disgusting.
 @swd7901  A platform where a sociopath can spin their main character syndrome narrative, devoid of any extant critique is a categorically dangerous. Praising this form of communication and calling a sociopath awesome is ignorantly perverse.
​ @teniechac9556 Yah I don't get how that interviewer acts how he does with the subjects while making those? I understand being friendly and caring about them n that developing over the interview, but I couldn't then turn it into that and publish it, especially as a continuous thing. Like I'd catch on to the perverseness n decide it's unerhical
 @teniechac9556  It feel exploitative bc it is! So glad so many people are catching on to Mark's BS with SWU 🤮
 @JustEndah  you are being actively obsessive and toxic with what ur doing here. be careful, you lack self awareness.
 @genesises  you're gaslighting.  I was only stating facts. If those facts offended you, I am not surprised if you're one of them. 🙂
 @AndyHoward except that guy is evil…. I used to love his channel but please don’t support him. There’s a lot of evidence that he is actually just exploiting the subjects of his video. He allowed Amanda’s father who she accused of m lestation scatter her ashes and parade himself around after she died it was horrible. She also died allegedly due to their negligent actions. There is a lot more info and videos if you want to know more
Its a roller coaster of emotions married to a psycopath for7 years    you need lap and sholder belts
Only that the acting out with ocd is to NOT harm others, while she experienced euphoria when hurting others. Not really comparable.
@Parvahti I am no expert, but OCD can refer to different types of intrusive thoughts and related compulsions. She mentioned washing hands repetitively as a means to relieve the pressure someone feels when disgusted. Or having to check the stove five times. I don‘t want to connect the two illnesses, I just found the part of wanting pressure relieve but having to surpress that similar. Ocd is a chemical imbalance of the brain as far as I know. Lets not judge!
 @xxmaxx20  she might, like many others, just have had a comorbid disorder (substance abuse, OCD, whatever). Again, I think it is dangerous to compare coping strategies without properly differentiating between diagnoses. She was maybe just trying to find a way to explain it to non psychopaths. But brains of psychopaths work differently. Because certain brain structures are different (prefrontal cortex, amygdala), they don’t feel fear, nor remorse, nor do they have a startle reflex. It’s also the reason for impulsivity and difficulty to gauge consequences of their own actions. If she is a clinical psychologist at all, her comparison isn’t as differentiated as I‘d expect from a professional.
OCD comes from flight type trauma response, narcissism/sociopath comes from fight type trauma response, & is very dangerous
@  I am not wrong. Maybe you’re thinking about intent? That could be a differentiator here. Saying OCD behaviours don’t ever have directly negative impact on those near by is clearly incorrect.
yes! I thought that as well!! I have ocd and my first thought when she said that was, "that sounds kind of like what I have to do when I do exposure and response prevention treatment."  aspd comes with a lot of preconceived ideas and stigma but seeing an actual person diagnosed with the disorder talk about her treatment plan opened my eyes a lot.
​@rivenroyce9923 can you please give an example of an OCD behavior harming a person outside of the person with OCD.
 @Brownmahfun   ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ there absolutely is. What on earth are you talking about. It’s a huge deal.
It's funny, I've thought about that before, too. Both OCD and sociopathy/psychopathy run heavily in my family, and I've noticed some... overlap? in the way the thought processes are described. And that the family members who are the most "neurotic" also seem to be the highest in either psychopathic thinking and/or actions (I hope that made sense, I don't really have the vocabulary to explain what I mean and I also don't want to say anything too "identifying" about the people in question).
I’ve heard a number of forensic psychologist say that they believe psychopathy and sociopathy in the serial killers and r*pists they worked with were essentially a version of OCD - just that their obsessions or compulsions had to do with $exual fetishes or sadistic behaviors
​ @Parvahti I completely agree with you. I found her to be patronising, aggrandising, minimising her own pathology and lack of understanding of what's 'normal' or even neurotic abnormal such as OCD. People with OCD do the behaviours out of anxiety, though they may not initially know the root cause. The worst red flags for me were how she described being a psychologist, that you don't have to empathise with a client, just 'help' them. If you cannot see how a client might be feeling that's just wild. The second would be how she describes everyone as having darkness within them! Like err no. Thirdly she minimises her own behaviours and rationalises them, even saying that people lean in when they hear she is a sociopathic though I'd argue she is a psychopath and was born that way. I'd be running in the opposite direction. She even says everyone has an element of sociopathy within them, that is absolutely crazy. The facts she is a psychologist is extremely dangerous imo.
 @Parvahti  She says she has been diagnosed with (high functioning) sociopathy, not psycopathy. She even explains the suspected differences between the two disorders. Plus that within the disorders there is like a spectrum - not everyone with the diagnosis "sociopathy" is sociopathic to the same extent. What is so difficult to understand here?
 @rivenroyce9923   you obviously just want to be right about your OPINION of OCD. Intent does play a crucial role in diagnostics. OCDers try to prevent harm to others with their compulsions. Psychopaths cause harm to others for pleausure. Very obvious difference. OCDers suffer from an impairment in social, occupational and other areas in their life - these impairments COULD (but don’t have to) negatively influence relationships, thereby causing the „harm“ you were talking about. Still something radically different from what we expect from psychopaths.
 @Parvahti   facts?  or like 3 decades of lived experience ? Come on. I don’t know anything about pop psychology.   I did reply to that persons comment   someone removed it.
Genuine question… what effective ways have sociopaths found to process it differently?
its also very similar to how ive been treated for my anxiety depression disorder. for me its more like "this situation makes me feel panicked, but i can change the way i react to it."   i am not a psychologist so dont quote me, but i believe its true that most people with disorders suffer from a lack of self-actualization. they feel that they cant personally effect the outcomes of things that matter to them. and simply empowering them to try and occasionally succeed has significant positive effects on them. it certainly did for me.
​@Parvahti  I think it is comparable. Those with OCD could have similar thoughts but they have more self restraint. The difference of her not having self restraint makes her sociopathic, which may have a physical cause, like certain parts of the brain being shrunken. Trauma affects the brain and kids who don't receive enough attention actually experience brain damage. There's no need to demonize anyone, and of course everyone should be held responsible for their actons
OCD is an anxiety disorder. it’s a neurodivergence of the brain and so is sociopathy/anti-social personality disorder. They are bound to have similarities.
​ @brianna094  No, that's simply untrue. OCD patients suffer from sudden intrusive thoughts (mostly "what if" - imposing an irrational fear) that cause sudden anxiety and need action to be neutralised. First the brain malfunctions in misdiagnosing danger where there is none, and then not giving relief when doing the action. This results in convulsive actions that take a lot to "break out of". Sociopathy thoughts rather suggest how to get relief (mostly "I should" - imposing action). Someone with very bad OCD might be stuck in loop actions all day and have no "self restraint" whatsoever, yet they are not on the brink of "sliding" into sociopathy as you suggest. Sociopaths don't have loops to break out of. The sole fact that they are very DIFFERENT illnesses yet have similar coping strategies is what is so fascinating. Don't spread misinformation.
 @Parvahti  "Only that the acting out with ocd is to NOT harm others,"←Huh? Pretty sure there is OCDs that involves harming others. Or harming themselves.
It’s cognitive behavioural therapy. CBT is used for many different mental illnesses. The structure of the therapy is the same, (your thoughts, feelings and actions all affect each other), but the verbiage will be slightly different depending on the disorder that’s being treated. So, yes, it’s basically the same coping strategy for OCD. It’s good that you can recognize that. It means you’ve been receptive to the therapy and it’s working for you:)
 @Parvahti  OCD absolutely can involve intrusive thoughts to harm others. So can most psychiatric disorders, it doesn't mean you are inherently bad for having bad impulses, it's how you handle them, and a lot of how you handle them is through learning better coping mechanisms. But to do that, we need to allow people the space to talk about what and how they are thinking and feeling without this immediate judgement of "evil, bad."
 @Parvahti something cannot be defamatory if it is factual, are you okay?
​ @Parvahti  I think OP is referring to ERP here :) a "treatment", vs debating if OCD in itself is similar.
OCD-er here : EXACTLY what I thought and yes it IS comperable, all of these things (in my experience) are being closer to the intuitive in certain parts of personality , being more like an "animal", if you want - either a prey or a predator; that's all.. . . I am also a regular M.D. and know some of these thin I ALSO have been having peeing thing for some time now - THAT one resonates as well and I am actually an empath. . .. so well, there you go
i just want to say that if there is a person with ocd reading these and thinking ''oh god i must truly want to harm people hence i have similarities with psychopaths and sociopaths who (some of them) do it for enjoyment'' let me stop you here! a thought is not the same as an action and you thinking it doesn't mean you want to do it. you might think about a spoiled food but you don't want to eat it. you're all okay <3 much love!! i just know if i was younger i would have cried over these comments but thank god i have came really far in my ocd recovery journey and if it's possible for me - it's possible for you too!
I'd say, most disorders that have negative behaviour responses..  ocd is just one.
​ @Parvahti She spoke about it being the "outside of accepted not the hurting" itself.. so, actually it is this..
​ @cindyforish8081 My mother would punish me to messing up her OCD practices..  I have people pleasing tendencies to counter being in trouble all the time. I have had to unpack a lot of negative feelings and then behaviours because of this. If only I could be a better person, if only I could get it right, if only I could have seen they were more unhappy today, more stressed than normal. Im not "intuitive & psychic" I'm skilled at surviving. But far out ai have hated people who make me respond in this way..
 @Parvahti thats quite a disgusting twist of words. You really should get soap in the mouth for someone willing to spill their mind like this. If yea by majority, what your saying has some sort of truth but thats not what were being told and trying to learn from. Quite the behavior, and quite disheartening
I think it’s really good to have a variety of therapists with a variety of approaches because something that might be helpfully or comforting to one person may not be to another!
I struggle with it.  Not all patients desire the same interaction as you.   I had to develop keen awareness of who is actually in front of me.  I am developing a Pathos Map that helped to refine my awareness.
If you really want to help yourself, I recommend a conservative Christian therapist. They will tell you things that most therapists will never say, i.e. sex outside of marriage is harmful, LGBT is a sin, abortion is murder, etc. If someone doesn't want to be celibate, they will avoid therapists who might recommend it. Same with using cannabis, masturbating, etc. Only the most honest people will take that approach. It's not for the weak-minded. Good luck!
 @derp8575  A therapist should be objective and non-biased which is the opposite of everything you just said.
@ No one is unbiased. All people will give their opinion. Besides, the biases I have are backed up by data. Things such as abortion and promiscuity are harmful, regardless of whether the client is a believer. Just like cutting is harmful, whether atheist or theist. I wouldn't lie to a patient just because of my personal bias.
I was seeing a therapist one time when I was getting anxiety in college, but after a few months I told him I was going to stop seeing him because my anxiety was going away (turned out it was all hormonal anyway). He asked me for feedback on his therapy, and I told him that I wished he would have actually given me advice on what to DO rather than just prompting me to 'explore my feelings'...  He responded (paraphrasing here) that he wished he couldn't gotten me to start being more openly emotional with him, and listening to him it was almost like he didn't feel like he could help me unless I was breaking down crying. Very odd interaction. I haven't been to a therapist since then.
I had a Therapist who was a very loving and holistic person, who tried to make me feel loved and accepted. I never felt it nor cared.
ITs probably unhealthy but i prefer a closer therapist who i can laugh with about things. If i dont have that i have trouble being real with my therapist.
Thank you all, for sharing a valuable testimony and account of this incredibly fundamental and dynamic principle I have overlooked for years.  I've been attempting to be the Yin or the Yang, instead of integration into a cohesive spectrum.  This will become a powerful tool in my bag of tricks. 🙏thank you
 @derp8575  Your biases are not really backed up by data. The data suggests that any of those things out of moderation are harmful, just like anything else more or less. Comparing cutting to consensual adult sexual activity is just, a horrible non-sequitur. But the research also suggests that the harm that comes from promiscuity or abortion are more related to societal attitudes towards such things and how society approaches such things and treats people who engage in such things, versus the acts being harmful in and of themselves.
I was just thinking I’d love a therapist who wasn’t empathetic.
A good therapist can't be easily manipulated.  They build an emotional barrier to protect themselves.
What you described is the standard and only type of therapist you get in Europe or atleast in the nordic countries. I think the US way is less scientific and more about customer retention and business.
thats why they are therapists often. they arent really trying to even help people. they want you to come back to talk to them, they learn and you pay them continually. its a good business for them.
Nor should it be emotional. Yes, we have emotions. Yes, there are methods we can use to help manage them.
Really good therapists are like this, but they are hard to find. Ultimately they are just trained facilitators,  but some of them have extraordinary insight.  I find many of the counsellors are just throwing their learning at me with an extreme attachment to the quick fix and feeling good in themselves about that. I quietly, get really angry, because they are not listening and developing a response.. they are just throwing a set of responses at me and seeing what sticks easiest.  I switch off and move on so quickly from these people.. I have been told it's a short attention span from adhd.. but its not that at all 😈
Empathy is irrelevant if you're a good therapist, but if you're not it's better to empathize because it could help you find a solution to your clients troubles sooner.
A therapist's job is not to empathize. That could actually get in the way.
​ @justsomenobody889 So it wasn't actually a therapist you wanted. You wanted a teacher.
How did you work on your journaling? I googled a bit but am not sure if I understand correctly.
 @mpGreen03  I can just tell you, how it worked for me. I am no professional and no native speaker. Sorry. I tried to keep my journaling simple by focusing on things that gave me trouble. And that was negative thoughts and anxiety builtup. So I started journaling with two main topics: 1.) at least write down one positive thought/event/whatever no matter hiw shitty the day seemed and 2.) writing down what stressed me that day and kept spinning in my thoughts. Identifieing the stressors and writing down what feelings they evoke. and then trying to find solutions how tto avoid the stressors or how to cope with them in another way (for example giving some tasks away to other people, canceling dates/events if it puts too much pressure/ etc.) . that was basically it in my case. the mere fact that I wrote things down and found a bit of a distance to my thoughts and emotions made me handle them better and gave me more of a "friend" perspective on myself. I used to beat myself up for small things so reading my problems on a neutral medium (paper) gave me a more loving and constructive approach to solving problems. I hope this made a bit sense.
Except you'd not want to bully someone it gets you too much attention
Some, sure. Narcissists bully too and there is far more of them.
My high school bully definitely wasn't a sociopath, he called me 10 years later to apologize because he said it was eating him alive... and it turns out abuse was coming from everywhere in that home. I neglected to tell him I was late-diagnosed with AuDHD because I didn't want him to feel any more guilt... I was never unkind to him because I knew his life wasn't easy.
 @ladyeowyn42 do you mean to show pity or are you saying they’re low income children?
She described the kids she reacted to, was misbehaving towards her, she didn't stab just someone. She reacted.
Definitely my cousin....scarred for life because of him. Ruined my relationship with my mother.
You can only be bully by being sociopath or psychopath. It's lack of empathy that enables people to hurt others for fun.
 @Tespri  But most of them don't seem to be getting "fun" out of it. It's more a sense of power and control, and/or maintaining social standing. Most of them feel isolated and powerless because they are being abused by one or both parents and/or they are overweight (probably less true now for obvious reasons), do poorly in school, or don't fit in in some other way. There are exceptions of course, and some are "having fun".
Actually I would argue most who bully are actually normal. They are the ones who bully the outcasts, aka neurodivergent people
 @setofreakinkaiba8553  As neurodivert I have to disagree with your BS claim. Lack of empathy isn't normal. Provide evidence that most people on this planet lack ability to feel empathy or shame.
I think abused children become sociopathic depending on their born state of not being a sociopath or being a sociopath. I am watching four sociopaths as they grow, as they were little sh"ts in nursery with my kids and are just becoming worse little shits. The presenter describes her decision process of going from deciding to ignore the social rules, feeling the euphoria of destruction then choosing the dark path of lying or manipulation because her thoughts were met with general disapproval.
 @madeleinejohansson6260  Not these kids, no. They just want to be left alone.
My boss and her sidekick are two dangerous sociopaths. I am glad I watched this. It gave me insight on how to navigate better around them.
I’m convinced things like this are a result of not being hugged as a child. It sounds so simple but it makes sense because real, safe love is never felt by the child or modeled for them. Speaking from experience and lots of research.
Yes bullies are sociopaths, narcissists more narcissists from my understanding... But severe bullying, emotional abuse in childhood can turn the victim into an sociopath as well, rare but it can happen how severe it is.... Like my brother 35 who was severe emotional abused, severe bullied. He is sadistic, good looking, has charisma that people stare at him like an bad boy, predatory stare make people very uncomfortable by his unblinking stare, very intimidated ( looks like an serial killer). He see people as prey, he provoke people a lot by his unblinking predatory stare, he love to toy with people, he want reaction from them to show he's the dominant and you're the weak prey... if you provoke him he come up with knife, that's how complex he is. But he don't hurt innocent people, he hurt more abusers, bullies in real life which he becomes ''deranged''. I think it's more related to PTSD, he has trigger reponses...He also have trouble to follow society rules and irrisponsible, to me this an sociopathic behavior. She clearly is an narcissist not an sociopath from my understanding....She likes the attention, validation being in spotlight those are traits of narcissism not sociopathy. If I compare to my brother and her, my brother look very intimidated compare to her....Sociopaths are intimidated, she clearly is not intimidated at all, plain normal. If I have to see her eyes and my brother eyes way different. Her eyes are empty, my brother eyes are full of rage. SIGN OF AN SOCIOPATH.
 @NicaleATifa  Does your brother even have a diagnosis? You don't seem all that knowledgeable, but this lady has a doctorate in clinical psychology.
 @majorgeneralmalaise  You clearly don't have any knowledgeable at all, i can tell, no life experience in personality disorders. Sociopaths don't seek therapist for their problem, an real sociopath don't get diagnosed, because there is nothing wrong with them according to them and they don't follow pathetic rules from my understanding, imagine an sociopath is going to licensed psychologist, what do they get from it? Tell to any licensed psychologist out there, sociopaths don't seek help i talked to an licensed psychologist, he said ''An ASPD won't seek for help, that's the hallmark of ASPD, we can only diagnose them when they're in court order for a long time, ending up in prison, but an ASPD individuals won't seek help for their diagnose because they don't care'' explain this to me?
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
 @NicaleATifa  I've heard a lot of misinformation from licensed psychologists. In general, they often know very little about disorders they do not specialize in.
You can tell who the real sociopaths are with the level of cruelty. Some bullies do just have difficult home lives. But then again, sociopathic parents tend to pass on their genes. Remember, genetics are a thing. They don't only control physical characteristics.
 @majorgeneralmalaise  Some of them do  give misinformation I agree on that statement but the one i talked to had 15 years experience in ASPD topic, he diagnosed a lot of ASPD in prison, court order because those individuals were caught so they get diagnosed, it's simple. As i said before, you need to go to an special licensed psychologist, some of them are good in cluster A, some of them are good in Cluster C, some of them are good in Cluster B. Cluster B is an complex disorder, most people get misdiagnosed when they have NPD istead of ASPD, just giving examples.....ASPD: against the society rules, remember that they don't follow rules like my brother, she does, no sociopath, it's simple. Sociopaths are not an sheep who follow rules. Remember that....
I think it's important we stop judging people and trying to put them in a box, because there are too many factors we don't know and never will know.
i think it's a LOT more common for sociopaths to be bullied than to be the ones who bully. not fitting in will do that to you. the ones who get good enough at social stuff are much rarer
 @NicaleATifa  She stated she was masking for the purpose of the video.
The idea that all bullies absolutely must be sociopaths or psychopaths is so easily disprovable with so little effort, I laughed when I read some of these comments. Dunning-Kruger is in full effect in these replies. Just one-off anecdotes all the way down. Not a shred of critical thinking or actual learning on the topic.   This country is cooked.
There’s often a blame on parents. There are goods and bad parenting but, the reality is we have no idea. It’s just judgment. As much as a kid may look happy outside but abused at home. We just don’t know
My sister was pretty brutal in all ways physically and mentally.  I know she was allowed to, making sense of that is a lifelong puzzle.
 @MK-mt4kn  Naomi is saying this lady here didn't just randomly bully that girl. That girl was her friend who did something (I forget now) but this lady here went overboard as a reaction and stabbed her. It wasn't a classic case of bullying, but sending missiles in snowball fight.
 @Naomi-uh4ws  seems about right to me. But often an extreme reaction to a very trivial annoyance
 @CookwitchCreations  bullying is a social behavior, it demands attention and demonstrates power, it is a tool to establish hierarchy. Sociopaths don’t really bully or they’d have to maintain that mask
 @NicaleATifa  UNLESS they are in therapy for a separate issue that is interfering with their life.
Most bullies were genuinely not the victims themselves. What existing research has shown is a general trend of bullies being allowed (or encouraged) by their families to be jerks to other people.
I think it’s more constructive to rmemeber that children may be mistreated or experiencing horrible chaos and instability tbh. Sociopaths with a decent or average intelligence or more are going to quickly learn to mask and not likely draw attention to what is “off “ about themselves in that way that bullying would shine a light on that side of their behaviour
there have been many studies proving bullies to not be "mistreated at home." u just did not bother to look.
Exactly, many bullies are lashing out but some just have issues they need to be treated for. I mean this in the best way possible, mental health genuinely needs more attention.
​ @DeathnoteBB  It's nice to see you again! Hope you are doing well :3.
You based your assessment off of this ONE interview? Why can’t both be true at the same time?
 @coconut_juice  Hi! I think so! I finally got a refill on my meds. I hope you’re doing well, too
 @DeathnoteBB  Just doing my best! It's so funny to see your comments pop up every now and then. It looks like we watch similar things lol!
Yup. Bullies either have issues at home or showing signs of sociopathy.
I think this assumption can go overboard when attempting to diagnose a child without knowing their history…don’t get too overzealous with this short video from one sociopath.
I genuinely hate many of the replies under this comment because simply: you don't really know what's going on in someone else's life and you will never be able to get inside their brain Not to dismiss bullying but deciding THEY MUST be socio/psychopaths because they mistreat you is part of why having socio/psychopathy is so stigmatizing and is DIRECTLY ANTITHETICAL TO THE WHOLE POINT OF THIS VIDEO You are likely not your bully's doctor and have NO business attributing a very real life-affecting disorder to whoever decides for whatever reason that you do not get empathy today... SHAME ON Y'ALL
Or a lot of other things, there are many reasons why bullies bully. As she says, the definition here is how the person FEELS, the low experience of affect, not necessarily the specific behaviours they do as a result of those feelings.  Not all sociopaths bully and not all bullies are sociopaths. It's just one more piece of the puzzle.
 @madeleinejohansson6260  No, not at all. I didn't want attention as a kid because it was incredibly dangerous. Adults in my world were extremely dangerous and the only way to avoid harm was to not be noticed. I am far from alone in that. There are MANY other reasons that different kids may not want attention - it may be overwhelming emotionally, it may cause sensory overwhelm, introverts don't want attention, etc.  Kids want love, acceptance and to be listened to. Kids want to feel safe. They need to be seen for who they are and accepted for that. In some ways that looks like seeking attention but there are MANY different forms of attention and not all are welcome or comfortable, and there are many different kids with many different personalities and experiences.  It comes back to what she is saying here about not seeing people 2 dimensionally, people are complex and kids are people.
Maybe you should have. Exteriorizing what you feel based on what you feel instead of what "should be done" (as a psudo social norm ) is a good way of overcoming the anxiety ​ @boundwings 
 @Naomi-uh4ws   Their violent behavior was wrong, regardless of the other child's annoying behavior.
 @jmodified   Nowhere in the video did they even mention issues of power, control or social standing.    Those are concerns/goals of Narcissists.  You went on to attribute their neurological dysregulation to being abused or overweight, doing poorly in school, not fitting in, when they are dealing with serious neurological conditions, not what you listed.  You don't seem to understand.  Your description minimized their condition, and conflated it with other conditions.
 @liv-oi6vg   It very much sounds like you are conflating sociopathy with autism.  Your statement is not the case.
 @cacatr4495  I'm talking about bullies in general, as that is where this thread has drifted. Look at the University of Washington and Indiana University study. It's quite clear that abuse and bullying is what creates most bullies.
 @cacatr4495  There's not much to question. Whatever the methodology - whether people are merely asked about past abuse or whether only verified abuse is considered, the differential is clear. Of course not all react by becoming bullies, but it appears that very few would become one otherwise.
 @jmodified   Then you haven't looked at sociopaths that developed that way in early childhood without being bullied.  You are only looking at a narrow field of view.  That is why I seriously question their "studies."  If their interviewed subjects were only of that criteria, then they are missing the larger picture.  Neither of my sociopathic parents were bullied.  None of the sociopaths I have known were bullied.
 @cacatr4495  Most bullies are not sociopaths. And of course sociopaths themselves are more likely to be abusive if they were abused, even if there is less (non-abusive) margin to work with there. You are the one who appears to view it narrowly, apparently because of your personal experience.
@jmodified  In order to bully, one has to lack empathy and also have malice, and those are narcissistic features, neurologically.  All sociopaths are narcissists, but not all narcissists are sociopaths.  Both are personality disorders, meaning corrupted neurology.  Subjective interviews do not establish causation: those answering the interview questions do not know why they are the way they are, they have no knowledge of internal, neurological causation.  Interviews are subjective studies, not objective, while science is objective and views cause.  MRI tests show that their brain lights up differently than a normal, healthy brain, and this shows differences in formative developmental neurology.  There is much study that is available for you to do, as sparring in comments about your opinions is not of service, nor is it of reality.  Subjective opinions are only that.
Yeah. I always hated when people say "it's the parents fault". No. We're all just made different.
 @setofreakinkaiba8553  What a load of crap. It is not normal to bully people, nor do you have to be "neurodivergent" to be bullied.
@cacatr4495  I seriously question your claim that both of your parents and several other people you know are sociopaths, and that you know all their histories well enough to rule out abuse. Very strange and incredible comment.
@cacatr4495  No, you don't have to lack empathy to bully. Many kids who bully other kids are doing it because they need an outlet for their own pain, often due to abuse in their homes. They have no control in that situation, so they seek control over someone weaker. It's not right, but it doesn't mean they necessarily lack empathy.
some of the worst people ive encountered came from loving and stable homes
The way she describes acting out at school and not at home is a MASSIVE red flag that she was being mistreated at home.   For most kids it's the opposite. They know their parents love them so they are more comfortable acting out where they know they will be forgiven more easily.
 @yourworstfan   Not only have I known them very well, but sociopathy, narcissism, and the other personality disorders are formatively developed in the neurology.  Some people here are touting a causation that isn't, while not being aware of what *is the cause.
 @cacatr4495  Anyone can be a bully in the right circumstances, and most people would become one in the right circumstances. The desire to feel in control or to impress others can overcome average levels of empathy. The research is out there for you to discover, rather than sparring with me, as you say.
 @cacatr4495  Almost anyone can become a bully. Most of the bullies I've known grew out of it and are perfectly normal, kind people. The rest became cops.
 @jmodified   What are you doing??  Are you a troll?  You don't want the truth, your replies do not serve the truth.
 @cacatr4495  I'm not sure why you think that. I'm telling you my experience, as well as the existing research. This seems very personal for you. Not every victim of abuse becomes abusive.
​ @Tespri being a psychopath or sociopath is a diagnosis that requires numerous criteria, not simply bullying
 @RepentImmediately  Correct but the very premise of bullying is lack of ability to feel empathy. Which are signs of those diagnoses... Having sadistic joy of someone suffering and not feeling remorse for causing suffering... That alone is good reason enough.
And it can also be both. Most sociopaths who become serial killers were likely people like her but they also had abusive parents
​ @Squirreltasticqueen  Some might just not care. Especially if there's no consequences because they keep bullying
Children’s verve system don’t develop fully until around the age of 25. Before that they all have the possibility of having socio/psychopath traits… so we can’t really diagnose young people with socio/psychopathy
 @7bootzy  why? its not new - this has been all of humanity forever - because it was better for survival in the old world we all used to live in.
It could also be both, sociopaths are not necessarily born that way.
I’ve never thought most people were behaving badly because of how they were treated, you can tell when someone’s inherently awful person
I'd argue that some people who work in schools can sometimes discern who is likely to be dealing with a personality disorder and who isn't.  Not 100% of the time, but on occasion.  I remember telling off a bully, and he was really upset and apologetic due to me being generally a really kind and friendly adult.  He was remorseful.  Then there are others who literally don't give a damn what impact they're having on the people around them.  They don't respond to kindness,  generosity,  understanding, or being told off. Everything leaves them cold.
Is falling down or getting hit funny?    1) Yes, that's my jam! People messing up is so funny!   2)No way! Those poor people!  Why would someone laugh at someone else's pain?!  3) No.  I don't understand why it would be.  The people around that person should act faster to help that person.   A bully is 1 or 2. A sociopath is 3.  Acting on emotion, and preying on them is typical of a "bully". Acting on programmed logic is the hallmark of a sociopath.   You WANT to believe your bullies lack empathy.  It's worse than that.  They understand it and enjoy it.
I don’t think so because if there like her they probably would know that it wouldn’t be socially beneficial to be a bully. Bullies typically put down or make fun of others to feel superior but what would a sociopath get from that if they feel apathetic towards others.
I don’t think so because if there like her they probably would know that it wouldn’t be socially beneficial to be a bully. Bullies typically put down or make fun of others to feel superior but what would a sociopath get from that if they feel apathetic towards others.
The Pathos is grossly misunderstood.  I see all social media as a form of sociopathy, hence the prefix of socio.
And it's not their parents fault or something at home. Kinda surprising!
yea most kids who are mistreated at home DO NOT BULLY OTHERS. i was bullied at home and in school. ive been through all forms of abuse but id never ever do any of that to anyone else, how could i live with myself?? all bullies are either sociopaths narcissists or just extremly low empathy. onviously. they gain from hurting others, like this woman describes. normal people dont abuse others no matter how much theyve been abused themselves.  so not SOME but MOST. please stop the assuming bad of people cus theyve been abused, its just victim blaming and its unintelligent.
​@Tespri  not true. Bullying can be  quite a complex behavior pattern. It can be caused by a personality disorder, but it can also be caused by abuse, it can be a cry for attention through negative reinforcement, it can be learned behaviored and it can also be a form of self harm through the use of others. You really don't know what's going on until you can get the bully to open up about what is driving them. This is why it's so important schools have good and caring counselors who look deeper than the surface level behavior. People are complex.
Well, not just bullies... She wasn't a bully but had a destructive moment with this friend of hers as a child. Any child that is just different when it comes to feeling things and using destruction as their outlet, they're probably sociopaths. Why just bullies?
This is so interesting and insightful. Wonder if she's ever had her brain scanned. Psychopaths are born and don't have the same connections with the amygdala. Sociopaths, in contrast, are co nsidered "made," and don't have the same disconnect seen in psychopaths' brains.  It's interesting that she explains that she did not experience the abuse/trauma in childhood that most diagnosed sociopaths describe.  I like her idea to rename sociopathy because of the stigma of that term, because there clearly is a spectrum (like narcissism).  She's apparently been able to form long-term relationships, which is not something that comes to mind when we hear someone is a sociopath or psychopath.
​ @LDJ-r8e Understand that, but what she's saying is that there is a spectrum for sociopathy, as there is for narcissism.  Some are just obnoxious and have the potential to be dangerous, but, as with her, can be worked with in therapy and become better people to be around.  On the other end of the spectrum are those that probably not amenable to assistance.
Why not fight your bullies rather than judging or psychoanalysing them? Maybe yes, they are deeply hurt or mistreated, but would it make you accept the bullying? Same thing with Trump. Instead of psychoanalysing the douche, get some good politicians to fight him.
@jellybean6778 We see it in certain populations like i  z  ra  le
After working in a prison for 10 years as a psychologist, I can say with confidence that attitude will make you a prime target. You are mixing up the concept of discernment versus judgment. You may not want to judge them, but you need to know them in order to protect yourself from them.
 @TakeMeToYourLida so you didn’t understand anything this woman said for close to an hour?! Why comment at all?
If they're taught well they can be taught how to navigate the consequences of their actions; and as she notes, it doesn't mean people enjoy suffering, so will not normally like, bully. The immediate response is  not a long term strategy in the way bullying is a long term social strategy.
 @madeleinejohansson6260  I think she wanted to break rules and not to mistreat people or get attention. This is why she committed crimes like breaking into houses- no one knew, but she got, what she needed of it, feeling wise. And attacking this girl wasn't bullying. Bullying is usually a campaign, not a single incident.
I think she sounds more like a psychopath than a sociopath
Everyone has a form of sociopathy?  What a line of ....
 @Naomi-uh4ws  "in a way that shouldn't matter" didn't she say this too? cause that's important for the description of that moment an what that child was doing.
If it's as a young child, I don't even think you need to be a sociopath or have very bad experiences to do things like that, it can be a temporary phase, as most people in my opinion have a little bit of a sadistic side. As I view things, the issue is how large your violent or sadistic instinct is, compared to your empathetic instinct and everything else. As a child, I couldn't stand seeing animals suffering, it really destroyed me from the inside, but at the same time, I was cruel to insects (I mean, very, really) and I liked watching somewhat violent cartoon/movies more than anything. I think I had both in me, I never bullied anyone but I fought sometime and I liked the feeling. And then if I saw a sad movie I cried endlessly lol. I was very senstitive in some aspects. So my point is that, a child isn't as adjusted as an adult yet, and I think children who are relatively normal but with a bit of a violent tendency can become bullies if the conditions in school are "right" for that. Adolescents are different, they are more aware of what they are doing. Sociopath aren't just people that take pleasure in bad behavior, as imho most people are a bit like that, to a least extent maybe. But they are people who can't find satisfaction in anything else and who can't feel any empathy at all.
unlikely Bullying is more about having power, power over others. Having power makes you feel better, that's a very normal thing sadly.
She was lucky enough to have a family member encourage her to seek help, before she got really beyond help.
This is the response I lean the most towards.  People believe yes, this psychologist has the “thrill”. But it’s through help she is able to separate what is destructive and who she is- a caring human who knows we are all the same.  This psychologists gives me hope.  For those who are afraid, have that right.  You have to be trained and around everyone to know where I stand
practically everyone has the ability to evolve as individuals idk who told you that.
​ @arcanealchemist3190  But that ability could be hindered or fostered by the external environment
In order to be a sociopath You have to live in your own little bubble. Facing reality bursts it and then unpleasant feelings appear.
​ @SallyIronic as a sibling of one, tons of people  "care to try" and the empathy needs to be placed on their victims for suffering. I don't believe in tip toe-ing around the subject of using others to their gain at our expense for relief of their "anxiety" & craving mischievoousness
 @ThatGmoney  I did not get that the speaker here is currently "caring" and she definitely never iterated that "we are all the same." It seemed to me based on her account that her condition is at least in good part genetic (she wasn't abused, no one taught or impressed upon her to commit those crimes).  She's still a sociopath, but a well-adjusted one.  I agree with roughly the first half of your post.
 @pawejankowski9364  your reply sounds like you didn't even watch the video.  It was implicated that her sociopathy was predominantly genetics-based (if her upbringing account isn't wildly inaccurate), and that for the most part she was doing what felt good and avoiding what didn't, like what most people do, but the emotional triggers for those things were different for her.
 @PoochieCollins  my statement was a general one. Not about this particular person, obviously.
she's wrong that guilt, remorse, empathy, etc. are learned emotions. they're only learned for sociopaths. multiple studies attest to this
@crackawood  empathy is learned emotion. Little children have no empathy, I assure You. They have to be taught, that hurting others is wrong, because they feel too, like them.  Sociopaths just cannot learn it.
 @minka1781  multiple studies disagree. empathy is innate even though it develops over time, especially after theory of mind sets in.
 @minka1781  The words of someone who hasn't carefully raised a child from  birth.
I see so much of myself in her history that it scares me. But being in my mid 30s now I made a conscious decision in my late 20s that I wanted a good life (family, a relationship, a good job, stability) and to achieve that I had to demonstrate pro-social behaviours. Honestly it’s been much more relaxing to just be honest and to not have to hide who I am or what I’m doing - and instead just do the ‘right’ things. I have a much happier life because it’s simpler and people treat me positively because I behave right. It’s peaceful. I feel the learned emotions intellectually but not emotionally - but… that’s enough 😊 This lady is fascinating
Acceptance as a child is not something that can be reduced or simplified.  You can see their behaviour but acting out as adults is a stepped process of learning. It needs layering of negative experiences. It is very rare for find the violent sociopath that has had a wonderful upbringing with well balanced loving parents. It comes from trauma.  The way people are reducing this is mentioned in the into to this video.  Your sister sounds angry with herself as well as with others and psychopathy means she has no filter. But you know your sisters background and I do not.  Being treated poorly or even just inadequately by our parents and then our peers and the secondary people responsible for us, teachers, police, doctors, etc Can lead to some pretty adverse reactions and attitude/character developments. I have often said to my mum,whilst she does feel like a failure as a parent at times, her love and continued efforts and care have kept me from some pretty harmful things. Towards myself and others.
The SO or psychopath is the opposite, they feel good doing no good.  It makes them feel good to do no good. They also don’t know what you just describes feels like. They never have, and never will feel that.  That’s what the disorder is. Being emotionally blind.  Emotion- fear, sadness, depression, lonely, embarrassment, love, etc. What they feel- Anger, jealousy, contempt, superiority, etc.  They are unable to feel joy and happy from being good and kind. They are like Zhan Tiri from rapunzel tangled series.
I agree. But for me, when I help someone its because they need help. And I feel concern and sadness seeing their strugle. Then I feel an urge to help them and I feel relief after, because I can feel others pain like It is my own. Similar to what she described she feels doing bad acts. And its actually awfull  to be empathetic in a such mess up world. I'm often sad.
​ @specialtwice4975  you're taking a way too simplistic view, that is not accurate.
​@deriene_rocha  doing good things for another you do good for yourself . Being emphatic is just being a mirror, accepting and reflecting someone's emotion. To get rid of bad emotion you always try to help that person. So, it is a selfish action actually
 @ЛідіяШе  The correct feeling is the connection, that is what human beings are wired for, we have empathy and sympathy because that makes us human. Some people don't need to get rid of bad emotions by helping others, they have a desire to, they are compelled, not for selfish reasons but because that is how they operate, it is who they are. They already have good feelings and that's what drives them.
Yes. I get a dopamine rush when I help, being a good person doesn't cross my mind. I wish everyone was a bit more empathetic. If not, what's the motivation to make the world a better place for all? (Including children, animals, the environment...)
Of course, seeing the grateful smile of the other person is the cherry on top. But even when nobody notices, I still feel a rush... It makes my day
 @deriene_rocha I think it’s good to be compassionate.  The world is in pain because fewer people have the empathy this world needs.
for me it's not the connection, but the approval. i like doing things for other people not for them, but because it makes me feel better about myself.. and i feel like there's something there, but i'm not diagnosed with anything
""kind" interactions dont make her feel like "oh I'm such a good person". " that's actually the sign that she is a sociopath to think that the end reward is gratification of that sort noone with empathy does things to feel good about themselves, or has that expectation the fact that she thinks we do, means she doesn't understand empathy
It’s helping someone else, I’m not doing it for a pat on the back.
I was thinking the same thing. I never feel proud like “I’m a good person.”  I get a rush from the human connection I feel in the moment.
 @deriene_rocha  These folks seek out the Empaths… they derive the greatest fuel from us.  I’m like you, often quite sad.
She didn't really talk about dopamine levels increasing for people. She described her thoughts as "Here is a problem. I can solve this problem. Moving on." No type of emotion was described.
@tikusblue sometimes not even from that. Just knowing that the other being (person,animal) is doing better, makes us feel better. Not because we feel/think "I'm a good person", but bc we feel a bit of the relief the other being is feeling now and the lack of stress from their previous situation.  ETA: that said, I have a lot of respect for people who lack empathy to some degree and still strive to do good and function "normally", positively in the world around them.
Yeah her misattributing feelings like that made me consider she probably makes many wrong assumptions as a psychologist.
I do get a dopamine hit from sharing some love and compassion. I don’t actively think “I’m such a good person”(that sounds narcissistic) but I do enjoy being kind to all life: people and animals.
 @deriene_rocha  I like so much that you said this, this is the way I feel too, and I’m often sad also, but I’m really happy that this is the way I am… And yes, it is weird to be such a thing in such a hurtful world where people are looking to take advantage constantly
weird that this allegedly certified clinician would get THAT so wrong, eh?
Yes, and sometimes kind behaviors don’t make anybody feel good. It’s just the right thing to do. We are so caught up in all these feeling ideas and that I don’t have to control my impulses.  It comes down to sometimes you do something even though you don’t want to because it’s the right thing to do now there’s a lot of variation with that and little children and messed up ideas for adults can make people more capable or less culpable.  But deep down we have impulse control or we don’t, but doing good things doesn’t always produce a great feeling and doing bad things doesn’t always feel bad. That’s why we have absolute truth like you can’t kill anybody except in self-defense. It’s very simple really.  And when we’re young, if we’re not taught to control our impulses, we don’t but little kids always often unless their compass has been messed up know that certain big things are wrong because it doesn’t feel right, but heck doing the right thing doesn’t always feel good.
​ @specialtwice4975   "Anger, jealousy, contempt and superiority" all come from an emotional space, my friend.   Patric expressed an intellectual understanding of emotions, but she doesn't feel them the way other people do. It's not a motivating force for her, so she is far from being blind.   She expressed anxiety (fear), lonliness (rejection), and she also talked about the stigmatisation around sociopathy which is not a one size fits all disorder.  You seem to be talking from the extreme end of sociopathy. People with severe anti-social behavioural problems. She was talking about the mild to moderate cases.
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
That's what makes her a sociopath...I was thinking my main motivation for doing anything nice is because people are in need, pain, etc and truly wanting better for them. It doesn't give me a dopamine hit in that way.
I don't get the human connection part... What are you referring to? Could you point it out specifically? Let's take an exemple:  You are at the grocery store getting the items on your shopping list. Someone stops you to ask your help to reach an item they can't. It's a quick and easy problem to fix.  What would be your train of thoughts and what would you feel after helping them?
This is fascinating because sometimes I am kind exactly because it makes me feel like a good person. Yesterday, after getting groceries, I returned two shopping carts to the designated spot in the parking lot. One cart was mine, the other a cart abandoned in the middle of a parking spot. After doing that, I had a moment of saying, "yay, you did a good deed. You're being a good person" and I felt really good about myself for the rest of the day.
​ @vinsura8211 I'm not sure if this is what OP had in mind, but this is how I think of human connection. It is when you do something nice for someone you care about, and get a warm feeling. For example you notice a friend's phone is on low battery so you let them use your charger. It is a manifestation of your care for them and feels good to be able to express. Emotionally it feels kinda like a hug.  I have a harder time forming this connection with strangers. In your example (helping a stranger reach an item). I would feel panic and go into autopilot mode (people talking to me when I don’t expect it is jarring). From the outside, I would be personable, smile, and ask if they needed any other help (this is me on autopilot while internally I'm questioning if I'm being socially awkward and am panicking). Afterwards, I will do everything possible to avoid them (I dont want to have to talk again 😅) but emotionally I'll feel proud of myself. Proud I helped someone and proud I did not make a social blunder.   On the rare occasions I feel confident and am not internally panicking, there is a bit of human connection. It feels like I'm a real member of society. I feel a sense of belonging and satisfaction that I could show my care for humankind (cuz I really do think humans are pretty great on the whole). Though I also get satisfaction with the thought that I am being a good person lol
And seeing someone else being blessed. That brings a dopamine hit not because you necessarily caused it, but responding to someone else's joy. Laughter is contagious.
Personally I don't get my feel good 'boost' from a personal connection, or their reaction. First, I get my boost from knowing someone are relieved from a burden, want, ailment, or suffering, etc.  Second, I just  feel so thankful that I  (worked, studied, exercised, equippedvmyself such  that I) could "provide" some cheer or help when it was needed (even if its only a smile, or holding the door for a rando). I guess, just  "being able" to be of service to others, is my boost.
​ @Liusila now consider how many neurotypical psychologists do the same. Her difference is important because it brings an unusual perspective that is often discredited. So what if she doesn't feel anything? Has her impact been a net positive or a net harm? It looks like she's attempting to be a net positive.
Yes, I found that part a bit strange as well. And she didn't really explain her motivation for paying for the person's groceries ... if she felt anything at all, or why she did it ... just because she thought she should. IDK.
For me, It's like a mirror. If I see someone sad, I AM sad and upset. If I help them, and can bring them joy, it's like I experience the joy too. I like watching other people be happy, it makes me happy.
Indeed. Also because we genuinely want the best for someone else. We want to help others just to help them out.
When I do 'a good thing', it's in large part a pressure relief from the sadness I feel when someone needs help. I hate seeing a helpless person or animal struggle if there is something I can do to help. I guess it's a 'nice' kind of selfishness, I don't want recognition for it, I just want the sadness and suffering to stop.
I find all of these responses and your (@tikusblue) comment interesting, because I also assume that's what people think/feel when they help people - that's immediately what I think when I help someone. Welp! Off to research the PCL-R test, I guess...
I feel relief to help people who are suffering. I do not feel a hit of pleasant feelings. I just hurt less myself, because it is painful to watch them struggle. I only feel good in the most vague and general sense.
I found that so strange, too. I love helping people, not because I want to feel “I’m such a good person”, it’s because making sure others are content helps me feel at ease like she explains doing criminal activities made her feel at ease.
 @specialtwice4975  people w ASPD don’t j feel good from doing bad in a literal sense. It’s situational, in a hypothetical context it happens when someone can manipulate you and have a little joy (dopamine rush) from the fact they succeeded.  Anger, jealousy and the rest of the list are also emotions. Sociopaths have emotions, j not the same as yours. If you like chocolate, your brain will send the signal it’s something you like and your wires will light up. The same way if another person believes they are the best in math and receive 1st placement, their brain will send the signal. The key difference is, it may differ in location and activity. While sociopaths don’t have all emotions average people do, they still have pos and neg emotions
This woman has such a warped idea of the world. Seriously a creepy lade
In my experience the good feeling doesn't come from feeling like you are a good person, it just cones from having helped someone. The majority of our species is deeply co-operative in nature. Most of us are just hard wired to enjoy being helpful.
I don't get anything at all from doing good thing. I do good things for what other people get out of it. I do good things for other people, not for myself. I don't even like to be thanked. I tell people to pay it forward when offered to be payed back or owed a favor. I'd much rather them pay it forward to someone else they see in need.
 @specialtwice4975  that's not at all how the woman in the video describes it. you're doing a lot to other and villainise something people don't have any choice over.
Autistic, possibly low affective here and depressed. Gonna focus on that last bit, as a lot of advice about how to deal with depression includes going out and doing some charity work or things like that. I have tried this quite a bit, and I can say that I definitely know what the emotion of guilt feels like; I feel horrible when the event ends, and I realize that I have felt none of the positive social emotions that I have been told time and again that I should feel from doing this kind of activity. Putting a smile on some stranger's face doesn't seem to do anything for me.   I still engage in various charity activities, but I look for ones that aren't as forward facing, like helping a food shelter sort their donations or getting a community garden in shape for the people who will actually use it.   I didn't develop subversive behavior coping mechanisms the way that Patric did, but I can easily see how I could have if I had a slightly lower desire to not be seen and maybe just a few more chance events had pushed me towards that kind of thing. As a child I did delight in some mischief, but mostly it was in creating a mess or simply moving objects around in ways that would confuse someone else later.  The flat speaking tone came naturally to me, but at this point I have masked it to the point that I don't think I would feel any more comfortable by dropping the mask. Figuring out things that I can do with my voice has been a long standing special interest, so I look more for people who will accept and/or enjoy sudden changes in the voice I am using, to help convey what I am expressing (anything from one sided caricatures of people that we have a mutual distaste for, to multifaceted roles that have a very different perspective on some matter.)
I'm sorry but what is the difference? A smile is a reward as well. What if your altruistic actions went unnoticed? Like, a very large for your budget unanimous donation.
she did i t so she could tell people she did it
I mean, as someone with ADHD so limited dopamine release, trust me people do it for that reason, they just don’t realize it. It’s a lot easier for me to tell what gives me dopamine because most things just don’t. But helping people does. That doesn’t mean I consciously go “I should help them to feel good” it’s just how humans work, neurologically. You want to feel good > helping people makes you feel good > you want to help people. That means for sociopaths, when they help people, they are always helping people fully intentionally, as their dopamine receptors don’t go off at all. Which really in my opinion, makes them better people, but because their neurology is different people judge them harshly. Society is very backwards.
 @milkyway_939  with autism, there have been some studies about the double empathy problem. Neurotypicals in a room full of autistic adults are generally just as blind and unempathetic as we tend to think autistic people are, except maybe a little bit worse, because they have never had to navigate that environment. There may well be circumstances where other neurodivergence work together better with each other as well.
​ @brmbkl  This! You hit the nail on the head! This is exactly what I was thinking 💡😎
I regularly commit acts of kindness that are inconvenient or negative for me, and I don’t get a good feeling when I do it. Usually, my reason for doing it is the knowledge that I left a person better off than when I first interacted with them. To me, it’s about leaving the world off a little better, even if it doesn’t leave me off better.
 @specialtwice4975  It sounds like you didn’t watch the video at all
 @Shokuju  I like your explanation of that issue. I wish more people understood
Their happiness is MY happiness. I might be an introvert, but like...gift-giving is my love language, but I hate holidays, because I'm so set on gifts being special and thoughtful and things that don't depend on a time of year, but that spark of a moment when you know something will be perfect for that person, and you have to surprise them with it, and.... I don't know, bringing joy to others fills my joy meter. It just feels like that's what it's all about - knowing someone so well, and letting them know  they were on your mind, and you remember those favorite little things they love. I somtimes send my old roommate a 'care package' of his favorite candy in fun size (as packing material, heh), some little things themed after his favorite characters from various shows or games, and many such hand-picked things just to let him know he's still my friend, and I think about him throughout the year.   This interview was FASCINATING because it's like really seeing the other side of the coin - the complete lack if f*ks given about ANY of that. But she explains it in a way that... well, I feel things TOO much, and she feels them so little, it kinda makes me bummed out that so many of us have such unregulated emotions we have to fight and cope with on a daily basis. I can be *too much for people at times, and meanwhile this doctor is very 'cold' in reception. I wonder what it's like to feel totally normal, balanced things? Ha!
yeah i think its the empathy the sheer knowledge the other person will be better off is where feeling good comes from,
What's good or bad is a concept we as a society defined. I wonder if a person will still want to do "good" if there was nobody around to ever notice it. And would she ever have the urge to do Bad if nobody around would feel it. If there is no External/social response for these actions, would they still want to do it? it's not like a bodily function like Eating or Drinking to survive. It's just stuff you do to stimulate your brain and get a dopamin high for it? 🤷‍♀️
I though that too, I was like yeah we can feel good about doing good but its often more about the connection we receive and give.
I love to help people but I don't care for their reactions, nor do I care for praise (I never tell people or talk about the "nice" things I do). I just simply believe humans have to help each other, and when I have the opportunity to help, I just do it. Helping people face to face makes me really uncomfortable because I don't want to burden anyone with the feeling of "owing" me anything or the pressure to "pass it on" etc. But I love gifting behind the scenes.
 @LDJ-r8e   I encourage you to see a medical professional about your fear and paranoia. Wishing you the best and really hoping you do not apply this thinking to everyone you feel is not normal.
 @vinsura8211   I would not be thinking much about the item or solving a problem for them. During that interaction I would probably be observing if they might need something else, if we had something in common, if I had time to start a conversation, were they starting a conversation etc. my focus would be on the person not the thing that needed doing.
 @80nomads74  That was a very thoughtful response to their grocery store example, thank you for sharing it.
Yeah. I don’t really get “good feelings” often, but I do get bad feelings really quickly. I do “good things” just so I don’t get an emotion back that would make me feel negatively, kinda to protect myself. I just seek constant validation just so I don’t feel any of those negative ones. I just try to play this game called life socially on easy mode, lmao. Because when I feel bad I just guilt myself over everything. But by sometimes being too easy or kind I actually offend others sometimes (like excusing myself for certain things they’re also guilty of—while I don’t actually mind it).
​ @deriene_rocha  You feel bad for them. You are experiencing a bad feeling. When you help you feel better. It is for you. Sure you helped someone else, but only because it affected you negatively and you wanted to correct that imbalance. Altruism does not exist.
@DeathnoteBB  Thanks. Me too.  Empathy tends to run short when people can't or won't relate though. Even just a little sympathy would go a long ways though.
 @apex_prey  Wow that is quite the statement. Altruism can exist even if it is not part of every good deed.
@user-uy8xf9tm5h  That’s an interesting assertion, but it crumbles under scrutiny. Altruism, as it's typically defined, is selflessness—doing good with no personal benefit. But that’s a fantasy. Every action, even the most seemingly "selfless" one, has a personal motive, whether it’s alleviating guilt, feeling good about oneself, gaining social approval, or reinforcing a personal moral code. Even if someone gives money to a homeless person expecting nothing in return, they still gain something—relief from guilt, a sense of righteousness, or just the satisfaction of helping. If a person donates anonymously, it still aligns with their internal desires or values, meaning it wasn't done for nothing. If true altruism existed, it would require a person to act against their own interests in a way that brings zero personal satisfaction. But humans don't function like that. Every decision is rooted in motivation, and motivation inherently serves the self. The moment a deed benefits the doer in any way—whether emotionally, socially, or psychologically—it ceases to be truly "altruistic." So no, altruism doesn’t exist. The best we can do is acknowledge that our good deeds, however beneficial to others, are ultimately driven by self-interest in one form or another.
@  People do things for others all the time that are not in their own self-interest. Motivation and intention do not need to be self-focused.
 @user-uy8xf9tm5h  That’s just naive. Even when people do things for others, there’s almost always some underlying self-interest, whether it’s feeling good about themselves, reinforcing their beliefs, or gaining social approval. True selflessness doesn’t exist in any meaningful way—motivation always comes from something internal. Even martyrs don’t die for nothing; they die for a cause they believe in, which aligns with their values. If you think people act with zero self-interest, you’re just ignoring human nature.
Yeah, I think a lot of psychologists and economists through the 20th century have probably been sociopaths, because of a lot of their assumptions of selfish reasons for things, like the commonly implied idea that being generous feels good because you're self-congratulatory, instead of genuinely empathic with the person you helped.
Wow.  What a disgusting motivation you're describing.  This is just over the border, its nuts.
​ @deriene_rocha it's hard, you're correct but maybe you can take solace that there are many like yourself AND you're really helping society each and every time 👌
​ @sateIIitepilot I agree and the way this woman describes everyone as having darkness and sociopathy is bizarre! She doesn't have anywhere near the insight she thinks she does. If this is her best masking, like whoa!
​ @Liusila that's what made me concerned that she is a psychologist of all things
 @deriene_rocha  honestly being like her sounds a lot better than having too much empathy, i genuinely felt envy at some parts of her experience. i lived my life riddled with shame that was installed to me by others, if i didnt feel the need to please others, if i didnt care so much  i'd live a way better stress free life. and the thing is i dont care that much because im such a good person or anything, its simply a survival tool for me. its my coping mechanism.
tikusblue I think maybe it's just how she worded but I think she was pointing to the general good feeling of being a positive force, 'doing the right thing'. Even if the person doesn't smile or give much interaction (as long as they're not rude or completely foul in some way) I can still feel good that I've made things 'right' with/for someone or even something else. It's like decorating a house to make it look nice, or organizing things so they're in their 'rightful' place. You can get pleasure out of that. "Constructive" as she put it. Creating order out of things
That's where the disconnect is. She doesn't feel the positive connection with the other person. She intellectually knows it is a good thing to do.
​ @yeetghostrat A lot of people in here seem to have a very strong preconceived notion that is contradictory to the evidence provided in this video by a licensed mental health professional.
Yeah, that kind of drove home how much she doesn't experience or even understand it. I know plenty of people who do kind things because they want to be liked or they do get that "I'm a good person!" feeling, but the kindest, most compassionate people I've ever met do kind things because they're the right thing to do. It might even inconvenience them or put them in an awkward position, but they do it because letting someone suffer or struggle just isn't something they CAN do. I know when I do something kind, I'm usually thinking, "I wish someone had done this for me when I needed help." So, for me, kindness is selfish in a way because I think my actions are soothing a kind of trauma or past pain for me, but the good feeling comes from knowing that the person I helped won't feel the way I felt when I needed help and had no one to step in.
Record scratch. A child was provoking you in a way that shouldn’t have mattered?  It mattered. It matters. How children are treated and treat others matters. It did and still does matter how you feel. Your feelings were and are valid.  I am not surprised at all when I see children neglected or endangered in society become angry, reactive and grasping without appropriate support and developing dysfunctional coping strategies to maintain a sense of power in their lives.   I’m shaking my head at the parents asking if sister wanted to make her teacher happy and not upset.. Children are not responsible for the emotions of adults! Emotional manipulation and shame being used in an attempt to motivate the student on outward achievement of grades rather than a focus on allowing her to feel the pleasure and benefits of learning in and for herself.
You do it for yourself to make you feel good, this is a selfish act. We all are to a degree.
 @specialtwice4975  That is so wrong. Sociopaths rarely experience jealousy or even anger, the emotions are so muted it's practically a constant flatline with minor dips. Youre describing a narcissist.
I feel good because now the person doesn’t have the problem or it’s less of a problem and they would’ve been unhappy if it had continued to be a problem. Kind of like you see a person falling and you reach out to grab them so they don’t fall. There aren’t any thoughts of how you feel or you did something for that person; you’re just trying to help that person not fall. If they do, you know they could get hurt. If you catch them in time, you’re relieved they didn’t get hurt.
​@Liusila  I had the same thoughts. I'm curious how she would respond to an adult who struggles with the mental health repercussions of being a people pleaser or someone who has a deep seeded fear of being disliked. I'm also curious how she would respond after discovering that same adult has a fear of being disliked because they were traumatized as a child after being stabbed by another child with a pencil.
 @DeathnoteBB I have ADHD and it in no way makes me an expert on anyone else’s experiences or pleasurable feelings. You don’t know anything about anyone else because you have ADHD. The distinction being made here is that in the video she assumed people feel good after helping someone because it makes them feel like they are a good person and pay themselves on the back. This person is saying that isn’t true; most people get good feelings after helping someone because we get pleasurable feelings from making positive connections with other humans and feeling like we are a part of a community. I agree.  And when I do something nice for someone, I actually do consciously think sometimes “wow maybe going outside and doing errands isn’t so bad I feel really connected to that neighbor, I should say hi next time I see them. I really feel like part of a community right now”. It is about connection for me. Not about ego. That’s the claim here. No ones claiming that it doesn’t make us feel good (or release dopamine, which I think is a way oversimplified and overused word in our cultural lexicon that has essentially just replaced serotonin in the pop psychology nothing-verse)
 @specialtwice4975  blah blah blah is what you just said - did you listen to the video or did you just want to play comments
I don’t care about anyone smiling at me 😂 not unless I’m already in a good mood lol
​@Liusila  If that were the case, she wouldn't have received her doctorate :)  She is talking very factually, i don't believe that she meant people are consciously doing it to pat themselves on the back and say they are a good person but that psychologicaly and chemically it is why people learn to be empathetic. As you grow up you learn that doing good makes you feel good, and your brain remembers this, thats why you continue to do good. Where as for herself and others with sociopathy this doesnt happen, its the opposite mischief and deviant actions are what you get the dopamine from.
It would be interesting being a sociopathic psychologist. Would it be akin to being a colourblind painter?
Empathy and Psychopathy are closely related in the mind.  As too are Sympathy and Sociopathy.  If we can grow away from the dogmatic, traditional approach to mental health, great progress in behavior will be nourished.
Good comment, to add, she is a sociopate so her reading of that situation is sociopathic: selfish
I do good things for others because that is what i was taught, and don't think about being a good person and what not. I do feel bad in certain cases, especially when i see small businesses,that are clearly is in need of a help, struggling, but apart from that, it's just that it is the right thing to do. I don't wanna be seen as a bad person
Exactly!! She truly doesn't understand how empathy and genuine kindness works
Thank you for explaining this, I was sat here thinking to myself, if I do a good thing, I don’t do it for the feel good factor I do it because it’s a nice and right thing to do and not because I want to be socially excepted, rather I’m just trying to be a genuinely nice person. I don’t do something because I want something, I do it because if I can help someone I will. Then there is also the part of me that feels if someone puts pressure on me to help, I feel angry and generally walk away these days, as I’ve been burnt by people that pressure you to help.
 @deriene_rocha  Girl! You speak truth. Having to "learn" to not care as much is so crazy as caring bring relief to others. But the world is so messed up. AND now to find out there are others who don't care, no matter how much you explain. It's even rougher. But it is nice to know. I don't think what you said was selfish. I think it's word choice. We do it to relieve someone else's suffering. Other's do it because they think "they should". Or to relieve a bad emotion. But sometimes it is just simply- someone needs help. And we are happy we could relieve their pain.
but that's why people do it really*, that's the point, she's describing the unconscious thought process. of course if someone is *consciously thinking of doing good things only to get the rush of feeling like a good person, there's probably a diagnosis to that in itself, because that's an unhealthy thought process. but most people do good deeds because of the mental reward for doing so, the unconscious dopamine hit of being a good person, that the average person does not even recognise for what it is. when you boil down human behaviour, we are often just very complicated pavlov's dogs, and the brain's dopamine reward system is extremely effective when it works correctly. it trains us from the time we are young that doing certain things gets us a dopamine hit the way we train a dog to behave using treats. our higher mind may rationalise it however it likes, empathy, connection etc, but at the heart of it we do good things because they make our brain feel good. a sociopath's brain doesn't do that for the things it should do. it doesn't reward her for doing the things she's "supposed" to feel good for doing, and so she doesn't get that unconscious "I'm a good person" hit.
​ @LDJ-r8e I feel the same. I was raised by a woman like this, without the self awareness, my father was extremely warm. I'm glad I ignored her and looked up to him, but she caused so much damage and still does.
 @sateIIitepilot  you can't arbitrarily separate them into good vs bad and pick the one you like better - both are emotional drives that are being satisfied, whichever you choose to identify with is irrelevant. that's just your ego being convinced that you are a good person.
So it sounds like having empathy and doing good acts is selfish now? This truly is an ungodly world we live in . The God of Heaven and Earth has given us food, water beautiful gardens ,the mountains the ocean and all other creation...and he has given all this because he is selfish and wants to feel good about himself? Yet another lie that Satan the Devil is spreading.
@ you are spot on - it's almost scary how many people seem to have absolutely no clue about what she means with "dopamine hit" to the point that i wonder if they even realize their perspective is subjective lol
 @genesises  What is arbitrary about it? Just because you can't decipher good feelings from bad feelings doesn't mean others can't, that's just your ego trying to justify your own selfishness.
@ if you want to take this logic to the extreme you could even argue that there isn't anything that is absolutely "true" because everything is relative and changes constantly - and our perception is subjective. trying to simplify nuanced and complex ideas such as culture vs biology is not helpful or constructive - especially when your logic comes from how you interpret and apply the words selfish vs selfless.
 @sateIIitepilot   the point is good vs bad is not objective, it is cultural and relative. a feeling has no idea what good/bad is and it isnt relevant until culture enters the picture - but nice try :)
​@deriene_rocha I think that's it. if I see someone struggling, I empathise with them like I am the one also struggling and going through that very pain. I can feel the pain that they're feeling within myself, which prompts me to feel sorry for them and need or want to help them
 @LDJ-r8e  This response is insane. What's the difference between you and these people (specially someone like her who's done the work to be productive and helpful to her community) if YOU can't find empathy towards her, when YOU ARE THE ONE WHO IS CAPABLE OF IT. Imagine isolating people who by nature and nurture have a hard time learning emotions... What kind of outcome do you think that produces? What would be the chance of her becoming a licensed psychologist and not an actual dangerous person if she had lived her whole life isolated? It's not only crazy because it makes 0 sense to separate them instead of having support systems for people with personality disorders. It's also BEYOND crazy that people who have no personality disorders like you, are the ones expressing 0 empathy. You sat there and I assume, watched this video about someone explaining their reality and then concluded they don't deserve the same chances, loving environments and opportunities as you. Take a second to reflect that!
"we get the burst of feel good feelings... from the positive connection we feel with someone else when we perform said kind behaviors". I would say that these folks get no positive connection from performing kind behaviors, and lack the empathy to even see that a positive kind action makes another person feel good or that a negative action makes another person feel bad. Similarly, I might logically know that pushing a button makes a certain noise, so if I want that noise for some reason, I will push that button, but I never think about how the button feels, why it makes the noise, or even feel at all positively or negatively about the button or the noise. It's just cause and effect. Source: I had a kid with one of these people.
 @genesises   You thought you had a good argument but you don't, across cultures morality is very similar, good vs bad is recognizable from a young age, there are studies on both of these topics, feelings fall along the lines of good or bad and it depends on the person and their morality, which emotions they tend to lean toward.
 @sateIIitepilot  yes and morality is based on social culture - nice that you dont even understand the logic of your own argument lol
sociopaths are just the polar opposite of empaths. Most people are varying degrees of in between, leaning to one side or the other based on nature v nurture. I'm a (super) empath so I understand the feeling. I understand how one could feel nothing but do it because they just want to do the right thing. The same coin, different sides...
 @genesises  I was thinking you were an adult but you're starting to sound more like a teenage boy, lol, are you a teenage boy? What are you saying yes to? Explain how I don't understand the logic of my own argument.
 @specialtwice4975  lol, def not a sociopath. It just doesn't feel good. Doing good and being kind is a necessity. I get angry if people aren't kind and view others. It's not a good feeling to do bad things.
 @brmbkl  It took me many years to realize your point. That others feel good about doing the nice thing, not doing it to be seen.
Right?  As intelligent and insightful as she is, she doesn't "get" that that's not what's going on, most of the time.  Like when I play with my cat and she is enjoying herself, I'm not getting dopamine from thinking that I'm a good person to play with my cat.  I feel joy watching her feel joy, and it's magnified because I was able to give her that happy feeling.  It's so satisfying to bring joy to another being, or help them to find peace, or relief from pain, sadness, anxiety, etc.  It's really not about me. It feels good to be able to help another to feel good.  It also feels good to see another person or being enjoying themselves or finding relief from negative feelings if I had nothing to do with it.  It simply feels good to witness others feeling good.  For someone like this woman, this is inexplicable.  It's like trying to explain what colors look like to someone who is entirely colorblind.  A sociopath or psychopath, through no fault of their own, is incapable of understanding this.  For them, prosocial actions are essentially transactional; if I do this, it gets me that.  While I do get to enjoy positive emotions from helping someone else, that's really not the motivation behind it. When I anonymously drop off food in the donation box at my local food bank, nobody knows but me.  I never see or know who was helped by those donations.  But I've used food banks before, and I've gone hungry before, too.  So, it feels good knowing that some other person will (hopefully) have enough to eat, even if only for a few days. When it's bitterly cold out, I feel a lot of anxiety because there are so many homeless around me, living in tents all over the city.  I don't know these people, yet I care.  I want them to be okay.  I want them to be safe and warm.  These are feelings that just don't math for a sociopath!
The interesting thing is that she reports that too (the warm positive emotions through connection) in her book when she speaks of her partner. It seems a little fishy to me her theory but can’t put my finger on it.
Because sociopaths can't experience the very things that make the majority of people human beings.  Also these people are not "normal" as they claim to be. Just because that is their experience does not make them normal as human beings.  The reality is they only have an intellectual understanding of human emotions because they do not ever experience them within themselves.  So she is not capable of recognizing why an empathetic or compassionate  person does what they do.  The only truth of the video is that they are more prevalent than people realize. Corporate CEO's, politicians, lawyers, Dr's etc ... They exist in all walks of life, but their experience of life is what is not normal and not the majority of what most others experience.
 @deriene_rocha you’re describing empathy, something sociopaths don’t have or pretend to have
First off, very interesting interview. I like to challenge myself to see multiple perspectives on things. I also have respect for the fact that she's open about it and making it open for discussion/ awareness/ understood-  inclusive etc. Simultaneously, I caught myself being cautious and sceptical with her message, weighing her every word and try to filter out the true motives. What i take out of this is that i see a person who must be having a very lonely, puzzling life...having to mask to fit in and later mask to "not be seen", uncomfortable with name and/or the image of the diagnosis/disorder and that the general publics reaction towards it could be unbeneficial for her to drop the mask (like; Why would the wolf reveal his true self to the flock of sheep while he's trying to make a snack out of them?).   Keeps me honestly thinking: What is the real reason/motive of the fact that this person is doing this interview?  - Revealing themselves to the sheep to raise awareness so the sheep can sympathise and the Wolf can pray on them more easily while their guard is down?  - Revealing themselves to finally show themselves because of tiredness of masking (and maybe also make it into a powerplay or to get little joy of the sheeps reaction or insecurities when they tell them that they are a wolf)?  - Revealing themselves so they can easily spot other wolves they can connect with (is it pain of loneliness?) and/or forming an entire wolf-pack with (to increase the chances of having a succeeding 'hunt/gain'? instead of being a lonely wolf? - ....? ....so many questions...  Unmasking to  At the last part she talks about (maybe) helping others like her ... sounded almost like that little girl inside her: "See me for me", "I want to be seen" vs. possible other intentions like "I chose to let myself be seen...I demand it, celebrate it or despair it but I'm superior to you (and get a kick out of it when you react)?"     Brainfart of an Ethical (whimsical/silly) question: Would this woman with her diagnosis/disorder and working as a psychiatric physician (treating, teaching about emotions/feeling/coping and way of thought etc.)...., be the equivalent of 'a blind person actively working as a driving instructor'?  - Are they not 'blind' in a similar way? Would it be Ethical/ responsible/how much risk or accidents could there be involved?   Questions...questions...questions....any thoughts?   Also, kuddo's to you if you soldered through this thesis of a text of mine....if you haven't noticed...I started taking a smoke at the start of this text and as i smoked though the damn thing...the message got more philosophical....(s)high... High, how are you?😅 Take care dear internetstrangers:)
Empaths often reflect whatever emotions they see around them. It’s like you FEEL the feelings of the other person. You see someone tearing up, and um you start to tear up. So when I do a kind act, I don’t feel like “I’m such a good person” I instead feel the relief, gratitude of the other person. Their happiness and comfort is what I feel too.
Yeah I hate that reasoning, "I'm doing good deeds so that I can feel I'm a good person". But a lot of people are actually like that, they need to be validated not only by others, but also by their own moral compass, to feel good about themselves. They're not really kind people, they just want to be because it's valued in society. In my opinion if they were born in another context and with another education, they'd just conform to those norms too, even if it was the opposite values.
 @deriene_rocha  Stay strong and take care of your heart, dear 🫶🏼
I'm highly empathictic. I help others for 3 main reasons. 1. It does make me feel like a good person and I like that feeling. I used to feel guilty about it, but I don't anymore. There's nothing wrong with feeling good about doing good. 2. I subconsciously put myself in their shoes. I somewhat feel their pain, and struggle. When I help them, I feel their relief. 3. God commanded us to love our neighbors like we love ourselves. I LOVE JESUS and I love to do his will. Being saved, I've learned that when God commands me to do something, even if I don't know why, it's usually a ripple effect of positivity that spreads through the world. I give when he commands me to give.
I could connect with so much that was saying & am going to ask my psychiatrist if I can take a PCL test, because I could see myself in a lot of herself. A lot of the experiences, & I've probably been through 5 different psychiatrists & there are overlapping remarks & diagnoses, but some are also wildly different. Fascinating.
I love that she pursued what she believed in despite being discouraged.. I was asked the same question "are you studying psychology to understand yourself or others?" & took the other road..
 @DPrior-gk6pd  I've always thought being apathetic was normal lol. I used to escape & feel fulfilled through sports & academics. I really appreciate that she mentioned that we just display our tendencies & certain things a different way. It really is kind of a spectrum as any psychiatric issue should be approached. There are so many variations & we're all as different as our fingerprints.
​ @MrShab96 me too! Just not the antisocial part, but everything else. I've been struggling with mental health for a long time but the diagnoses don't seem to explain it. I wish I could find a good psychiatrist to just get some clarity
For me it was the most scariest xD informative but very eye opening how many monsters are out there, lurking... Pokerface living a normal life, most of them not telling you or being honest about it, destroying other people.
 @BrimstoneMoth  you do realize most "normal" people are pokerfacing it? 😅 Also I really don't think you can lurk. People who destroy lives - you can pretty easily see them
fascinating is one word. Creepy is another. The idea of having her as a therapist is insane. Her very condition (to the extent her words are honest) renders her ill-equipped to be anyone's therapist. It's like having a blind and shaky eye surgeon.. or something.
 @avp6730  do you know what anti-social means? It means you engage in criminal activities, you cross the line without caring and likely end up in prison or constant legal trouble. Are you a criminal? Or do you just mean you don't do well in crowds? This lady should not be a parent or a therapist, it makes no sense.
@mattmarkus4868  did you even listen to her interview? She makes a point of saying defining anti-social through only behavior (ie criminal acts) isn't right. Because she explains you can have that urge and not act on it.
 @avp6730  i listened to as much as i could, but everyone has thoughts of all sorts that flow in and out. It doesn't make you anti-social, despite what she's saying. But acting on urges does. That's a world of difference. There is no grey area for actions. Aside: she explains (and demonstrates) she has no empathy for humans, yet she's a therapist and a mother. Yikes.
@mattmarkus4868  occasional thoughts and persistent urges are different things. Also empathy is overrated. I've had therapists that try to empathize with me and it's just creepy. I'd prefer her as a therapist to approach my problems from a rational, practical point of view. As a parent I think it could also be beneficial - instead of projecting your emotions and experiences on your child (which is sort of what empathy is) approaching it with genuine curiosity about the child's feelings
 @avp6730 Then you don't understand what a therapeutic relationship is supposed to be. With a person like this as your therapist, you will not heal. Actually, you might even get worse. Also, why do you think that a therapist with empathy cannot be rational?
@andreavanda5402  my experience with therapy is therapists who try to empathize with me creep me out. A therapeutic relationship is based on trust. Trust and empathy are not the same.
totally im a psyc major this was super interesting and informative
​ @avp6730  But she just said she acts on it, as "prescription for mischief" (literally trying to manipulate her audience into minimizing her criminal activity as something cute she needs to do). I can't believe how many people in the comment section are just eating up her obvious BS! Just, wow.
@randl7423  acted. She was talking about her youth. So something like 20 years ago.
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
 @randl7423 She did actually literally refer to this even in her talk saying people are always fascinated. Sociopaths are like emotional vampires and this is exactly what keeps them going. The energy and empathy of others. They don’t really have a full range of emotions themselves and when they do the emotions are self centered as in they may feel bad that got caught. No fun to date one. They can be fun and always are called charming even they call themselves that like she did even refer to it and got a kick out of it.
Even more fascinating when you do a deep dive and find nothing about her, no published dissertation, no job history, nothing. She seems to be exaggerating her claims to sell that book.
 @avp6730  There is a difference to politely putting on a smile in public and faking all your emotions.
 @BrimstoneMoth THIS is why dating and relationships can be so frustrating and difficult!! 🤯
 @neverBragg 🙄🙄🙄I would argue that fake Christian piousness has exacerbated this issue by defining a very narrow band of accepted behaviors 😢
 @tomaccino there has to be at least one person brave enough to be HONEST
 @EllePrays  Patric Gagne, it's called "Sociopath: A Memoir". I read it in one sitting
@valerielemora  thank you gor that! Definitely one for the coffee table 💖
 @mattmarkus4868 yes I agree. She even admitted not being interested in studying other pathologies. I know everybody feel some kind of empathy towards her because of her honesty, but I don’t. She’s unfit to be a therapist and probably to be a mother. How do you love someone if you’re unable to feel guilt? How do you raise little children if you’re not affectionate? Also don’t take the risk to pass your sociopath genes to your children.
I also find this is interesting. She seems unaware of how it feels to be kind out of the sake of being kind. The way she describes it makes it seem that the only thing people "get" out of it is that other people think it is nice. That's not how it feels for me and I am pretty sure it doesn't for most other people either.
But empathy and kindness ARE learnt though. Children are mostly mean in their infancy. They are very possessive of their parent and if they get a sibling appearing at the wrong stage of development you gotta be careful of their jealousy and what it can do. Children are naturally mean amongst themselves and it is education that teaches them empathy and kindness, there's nothing natural in those behaviors that we developped as a species to live and grow together more effectively.
She stabbed somebody as a child and talked about robbing peoples houses and stealing cars.   She's most likely incredibly unethical and crooked as a business woman and she would probably again argue that doing otherwise would be "false".  These people are running our society. We need to start taking this seriously. It's not just "aw they should get help and support" bruh they don't have empathy, peoples idea of how to help them is all wrong. They need to be BANNED from all forms of power forever.
Now she's talking about hanging out at the White House. These people need help? WE need help from THEM.
 @camilledabert I feel like that’s a huge generalization. Plenty of kids are naturally empathetic and kind even if they are in families or go to schools where everyone around them is awful and unkind. In some aspects these things can be learned and modeled, but there are also aspects of them that are inherent/deeper in people. Also, not all children are naturally mean. As a kid growing up I had experiences in the neighborhood or at school where all the kids were genuinely sweet and kind. Sure there might be conflict at times, but no one was cruel. It really really depends on the people, its not as black and white as all that
 @klownofkether6996  BECAUSE they were TAUGHT from a young age those feelings. it's not me saying that it's psychology studies.
 @klownofkether6996  Hard agree.  I'm a mom of two.  My eldest, now 4, has shown signs of being deeply empathetic since he was less than a year old.  He's highly sensitive to other people's emotional states, especially mine.  He can read me like a book and tell me how I'm feeling--if I'm tired or sick or frustrated or happy.  He's incredibly gentle with animals and younger kids and, again, has been since he was less than a year old.  It's not that he's never mean--like any little kid, he gets a power kick out of taking toys away from his little brother, for example.  But he still innately feels what other people are feeling, and he has a deep drive to respond to that.  In this regard, I see a lot of myself in him.  I always cared how people around me felt.  I didn't always instinctively, maturely grasp how my actions affected others, but whenever I realized a behavior was actually hurtful, that was an immediate reason to abandon it.  I grew up in a family that did not nurture the value of kindness.  They didn't have time for kindness.  It's weak and mushy and impractical.  I turned out this way anyway.  To me, that says these emotions can be matured, but they are innate rather than learned. (My youngest, on the other hand (age 2), is similar to my husband in that he'll notice big emotions and be kind of react to them, but mostly he's just kind of benevolently living his life without spending tons of energy on being attuned to the emotions of others.)
​ @camilledabert  Even animals show selfless kindness. I wouldn't trust whatever study it was that gave you this idea.
@p90bridge  animals do go selfless every now and then but these animals are usually highly intelligent, social animals who developped similar survival mechanisms to ours. This DOES NOT settle the debate between innate or acquired as a lot of animal behaviors are actually learnt from mimicking adults and NOT innate, ESPECIALLY in the species that ressemble us the most, socially speaking.
 @TheGreatWerebear-ge7uh  even at the age of 1 a child has been influenced by its surroundings and since he is SO receptive and good to other people's feelings, he answers according to them a lot and because of that he receives praise because, one way or another you demonstrate happiness when he does and that encourages him in the right direction. Animals help children learn empathy from a young age because they will not hesitate punishing them for being too violent with them and there is a natural understanding of that between pets and young children. It IS  a way to learn empathy and kindness. Most things aren't taught to children through speech or demonstrations. A lot is learnt through observation. I don't know your parents or how they raised you but there IS a chance you learnt empathy and kindness from them anyway, even if they aren't kind people.
"Children are mostly mean" uh ok. I'm not even gonna ask for sources.
@p90bridge  by mostly mean I mean that from an adult's perspective because at the end of the day they are neither mean nor kind. But they will be putting themselves first which is seen as a non desirable trait in someone you would call kind.
 @camilledabert  Sure, and I'm not even gonna ask for sources, so say whatever you want. Empathy is natural, sociopathy is not.
@blueberrydragon5160  At surface level you might think so. Some might say it's oppressive to not allow pyromaniacs to burn down their house.
No thats not really true. While tiny kids are angry and posessive and jealous yes that's only because their brain doesn't have impulse control yet, it's an area of your brain that starts to develop around 4 and takes well into adulthood to finalize depending on nature and nurture. Most kids have just as inherent tendency to share, to comfort and show physical affection.
@camilledabert  Unlike the alternative it's not a disability. Truly scientific people always know that science is flawed and limited, always. But some people believe in this misconception that anything called science is facts, but if sociopaths run the world, guess who runs science? Ethics means different things for different people, for people in power ethics is just an obstacle to get around on the way to a personal goal.
@ You warped and augmented the details of what I described in order to fit your already-established worldview.
I agree. It's nice to hear from someone who had access to help and support with this. Yet in the shadow of her experience, another kid like her but with less support could have easily racked up a criminal record. She didn't get caught, and found better ways to cope. This greatly affected her growth and overall outcome. She seems to be disconnected from exactly how close she was to having a criminal record.
IMO, empathy can manifest differently. Sure, the most common empathy is the ability to feel or understand what other people feel. But I also think that empathy can also be able to 'see' what others see, that is more logical than emotional.
Am i wrong or did she compare doing good deeds and commiting crimes and said she got the feeling out of that instead of empathy? I tried to find it again but couldnt, video is long. If she said that😅she really doesn't get it. no patric doing good deeds give you more calm and pleseant emotion, not like a rush of excitement
 @nanahachi9628  yeah me too, i’m not kind because i want to feel like a good person or because i really care about strangers- but because it gives me a sense of peace and happiness
 @camilledabert  that’s not being mean, they’re trying to survive, a sibling means less energy towards that child which means survival becomes harder
 @camilledabert   ""But empathy and kindness ARE learnt though. Children are mostly mean in their infancy....  you gotta be careful of their jealousy and what it can do. Children are naturally mean amongst themselves and it is education that teaches them empathy and kindness...""  Exactly, and mostly NO ONE KNOWS where this condition comes from, some pretend to know, and say it is genetic or has a genetic component, as if these two cases were similar, they are not... no one know if a kid has it bc of the parent's behavior and so it is learned, or if none of her parents is sociopath, then she was born with it, but then it is not genetic in the sense that it came from two normal parents.... meaning this woman's kids might not even have it.  So it is not genetic in that it is not heritable.  It is leaned, and most thing are learned.
Without meaning to offend you but rather as a factual reading of it, I find your comment too nonsensical.   You just make statements as if they are facts, but they seem to be your FEELINGS.  This is NOTTTT at all  ""like a blind person describing the color red"". The same for all previous STATEMENTS but nor yours even, they are exactly what she said, yes,   ""They don't have an internal sense of the genuine pleasure that comes with kindness, so they only connect it with the external pretty that also comes with it.""
 @camilledabert You’re talking as if their natures are already fully formed but brains don’t finish developing until the mid-20s. Children can feel all sorts of pro-social impulses stimulated by empathy. I’ve seen them do it. Sometimes though, they are so carried away with their own little emotional tidal waves that they don’t pick up on what’s going on with others. Then they can be mean.
 @camilledabert  I think that people are different in that, for some, it seems like it was always there, starting from infant while others need to learn. Maybe just like some people are musical naturally, others need to learn or find the right mindset to get into that bandwagon.
 @p90bridge  I think she said that she never stole or break anything in those houses, why do you think the opposite?
@jarkkoaitti287  It's extremely criminal regardless if she just cleaned their house or left gifts. I mentioned it in reply to the last sentence in the OP
@L-K-Jellyfish  most people do not understand what I meant by "mean". I used mean as a shortcut but I guess I should've used selfish, self centered and  putting themselves first.
​ @camilledabert It's odd that your definition of natural would require a child to have to grow up with no parents and no influence. It's odd that you consider social influence not a natural thing that humans do. Most creatures raise their children to some point, especially mammals, so how is that unnatural? Brain development is also a natural thing in life..... So why is the moment a baby is born considered the most natural.  You've got a weird definition of natural that leads to weird implications. Humans being intelligent and social doesn't make us less natural. Weird thing to imply.
 @p90bridge  we are successful bc "they" run society. if we had some "soft hearted, we can make society for everyone" person at the top, everything would be deluded from the inside. not everyone is a leader, therefor its smart to let these lead, that are able to and that successfully.
She absolutely described inherent criminality. She was breaking into houses and stealing cars.
 @camilledabert  I don't know where you got that information but this is utter BS. Children are not naturally mean. Humans are born with a certain personality and once you have kids you will see that some are nicer than others and most of them are NOT mean. If they are than usually there is something wrong
 @camilledabert  When I was little, there was a chicken at our house, in our garden, and I really liked it a lot. And at some point, my grandma wanted to cook it, but I didn’t want her to. I cried because she said we were going to eat it. But then she said, “We won’t eat it.” Later that evening, I had completely forgotten about it, and there was chicken for dinner. I didn’t think anything of it, and we ate it. Later, she told me that it was the chicken. So, I would say that compassion isn’t taught; for most people, I’d say it comes naturally. However, this process of unlearning compassion, that is something that’s taught.
Camilla, I can pretend to be kind because I learnt through living life that helping people and supporting them is nice and will bring me a lot of benefits but I do not have any empathy towards anyone. You clearly do not understand anything about psychology or sociopathy. Sociopaths are perfectly able to pretend they like you and behave in a way that makes you believe they do, but they wouldn't mind for a second if you'd drop dead in front of them. Empathy can not be learnt. If childeren are mean it's always a sign of problems at home, abuse, emotional problems or underlying disorders such as ASPD. Children are not mean by default. A pscyhologically healthy person has empathy and is inherently nice because biologically these traits are needed for survival. Humans lived in tribes and if others didn't like you, your chances of survival would decrease drastically
But can it not be said that lacking the same levels of reward for doing something positive and shifting it to doing something destructive tends to make a person more criminal? I think it does. It sucks for them and it's not fair, but such a person is inherently more dangerous than others. The question is how should our society deal with this in a moral way?
 @somedudeok1451  My lack of feelings of reward of doing something positive stems from having RAD. I went for a diagnosis because I thought I was a psychopath. I agree that there is definitely a difference between not having empathy, not having feelings of reward and doing criminal things. This is one of the main reasons I didn't qualify for ASPD at all. This video was very interesting for me as I recognized the part about not caring about what my teacher would want and living without empathy but not at all about needing criminal actions to help me deal with it. While I'm not dangerous and my condition is only harming to myself, she seems a pretty dangerous person to be around
​@p90bridge you're incredibly quick to judge her given she is openly providing information about her behaviour, actions and diagnosis. It's incredibly brave of her to publicly speak on sociopathy precisely because people like you will rush to judge and condemn sociopaths. Patric is one of the few sociopaths who has enough insight to be aware of her condition and intelligence to have gone to university and received a PHD in psychology.  She is using her skills for research into this condition and to help others understand and overcome their inability to experience emotions the same way most people do. Maybe go read her book before judging her and then draw your conclusions.
 @legoqueen2445  Everything I wrote is just literally true. Call it judge if you want, I'm not tip toeing to protect the feelings of people with no empathy, that would be a waste imo.
 @blueberrydragon5160  empathy favoring certain people over others is empathy working as intended
 @camilledabert  The notion that empathy, compassion and selflnesness are purely learned just is not true. For neurotypical people those are innate tendencies that develop alongside brain. HOW (how much, to whom, and in what situations) you use these tendencies is the learned part. In other words, usually small child feels empathy simply because it's part of their brain function BUT might not feel for example shame in certain situations that we have socialised as shameful just because the toddler has no yet learned that it's a thing to be shameful about. Or hasn't yet learned that certain action causes other people to feel bad etc. Also, being rude doesn't equal no empathy. Seems like you are only familiar with cognitive empathy ans represent an example of person who don't believe in emotional empathy. (not saying you don't but it really seems like it)
 @camilledabert They ARE just as well inherently empathetic - look at the studies about babies watching movies about helpful behavior. I don‘t know the title.
 @camilledabert  no empathy isnt learned. weve got braincells dedicated to empathy.
 @p90bridge  This comment bothers me for a myriad of reasons. One is, how do we measure the levels of empathy someone has and what length are we going to take to ostracise people that won't qualify for these standards? A lot of people with autism could qualify as lacking empathy, and some people are even misdiagnosed with autism and vice versa. "They need to be banned from all forms of power forever". This take is simplistic because decision making does not necessarily become effective and good because you're a "good person". Empathetic people make bad decisions that affects others all the time. It's also important to note that not all sociopaths acts with the goal to cause harm for the sake of harming people. You watched this video with this woman explaining how society has a simplistic and one-dimensional view on sociopathy and that being inherently "evil" is a common misconception, yet you still subscribe to those? If we go by levels of empathy, good decision making and rational thinking, you certainly would not qualify for whatever standard you're promoting.   Second, you obviously did not watch the video. Her criminal ideation and her stabbing a fellow student was a response to a built up anxiety. She worked with a therapist to help her with this and now she claims she's better and controlling those urges and understand her emotions better. She's an asset to the psychology field and her story might actually be helpful in making people like her become functional members of society. Wanting them "gone" and push them out of institution of society based on their level of empathy reads as borderline eugenics.
I think evolution influenced humans to be more likely to have innate pro social behaviors. So many people are born being more empathetic than others. And most learn that pro social behaviors have many benefits regardless of whether it’s a natural response.
@elektrakomplexet  Nej, komplexet. To not let sick people have power over others is not oppressive, it's protecting them from themselves. I wish them all a lovely life, but they should not run the world.  And yes I watched. She said the girl she stabbed was at the wrong place at the wrong time. Oopsie. She stabbed somebody and made it all about herself. Which is expected of course.
 @p90bridge  No one mentioned anything about oppression. You're projecting. It's a slippery slope to have a society where you deliberately excludes groups of people, and it's also weird to call them "sick ". You're not helping them by isolation and forcing them in fields and places in society where they hold no influence. Especially since you cannot draw a proper line on what constitutes a sociopath or an unempathetic person in the first place. As previously stated, you don't need to be a sociopath to be a bad person and make bad decisions, but is that allowed because they may have some levels of "empathy"? What qualifications are required for a person in power? Does this notion extend to other diagnosis that may have lacking or selective empathy such as autism etc? You're not protecting sociopaths or helping them by isolation. The woman in this video straight up said that it was isolation and lack of understanding of her way of functioning that caused pent up frustration and destructive behaviours in the first place. What an ineffective proposition.
 @elektrakomplexet  And how the f am I condemning people to a lifetime of isolation just cause I wouldn't let them decide over others? Excuse me???
 @p90bridge  You don't want them in positions of power. That means they cannot become teachers, doctors, lawyers, statesmen, law-makers etc. Not just politicians hold positions of power over others. Do you want to isolate them to a few selected fields of work where they can never hold any power like a manager, a CEO, HR-worker, etc? If you don't understand your own implications, then don't speak of things you don't understand.
 @elektrakomplexet  My proposition would ve very effective, because my goal is to get rid of corruption. Different priorities. I know a lot of people are conditioned to protect the corrupt leaders and business owners of the world, always people who benefit from the current global status quo, coincidentally.
@elektrakomplexet  You're very passionate about letting people with no regard for anything other than themselves have decision-making power. I'm 100% sure you will have your wish, GUESS WHY?
@elektrakomplexet  And yes, I don't think they should be teachers, doctors, law makers or anything else that requires a firm grasp of the importance of ETHICS
@ You don't think neurotypicals are corrupt? What kind of nonsense is that. You don't want them to be in those professions because they lack ethics, yet you preach about forceful exclusion and discriminatory policies towards people society deems as "problematic"? I don't think you're a person who should preach about ethics.
@elektrakomplexet  Yes. Have you had a sociopath doctor or teacher? Highly unpleasant and should be illegal.
@elektrakomplexet  I don't think pdf files should get to work with children.Terrible I know.
It stood out when she said, “I don’t want to be at the mercy of these impulses.” That shows that some form of moral understanding is present… self-regulation that way differs from, “I don’t want to get caught.”
 @camilledabert  "Children are mostly mean in their infancy. They are very possessive of their parent and if they get a sibling appearing at the wrong stage of development you gotta be careful of their jealousy and what it can do. " most are "it is education that teaches them empathy " for those 'most' , yes some are born with empathy, see it as the other end of the spectrum as sociopaths "most" are inbetween
i used to be a really mean and unempathic kid but now im very sensitive with others feelings especially animals. for some it is learnt
 @p90bridge  I agree. Menaces. People without empathy are what "evil' is. Evil isn't supernatural. It's walking around inside of human beings -- those who find pleasure in hurting people and who have no empathy. What can I take? What makes me feel good? How can I use this person to enrich myself at any cost? Evil.
@brmbkl  you cannot make a generalised statement while acknowledging ANYTHING but the "most" part. Exceptions are exceptions for a reason.
@ False equivalency, and you know it. You’re not a very serious person.
 @elektrakomplexet  Nonsense. You use a lot of big words that don't even apply. Awkward.
@ I'm really sorry to hear you suffer from issues with bonding. As someone who works with kids I know that bonding during childhood sadly has implications for potential criminality later in life. I don't know you, so it might not apply to you personally, but I know that statistically that connection is there. It is why I want to give my best to making sure children get the care they need.
 @p90bridge  Awkward that you don't know what a false equivalency is.
@elektrakomplexet  I'm onto you and there's no possible way I would ever fall for your games.
​ @TheGreatWerebear-ge7uh   Very well described , thank you for your insights ❤
 @camilledabert  Actually, kids who are barely walking are shown to be able to demonstrate kindness and empathy. Yes, they can and do demonstrate meanness, but also empathy.
 @camilledabert  Put it this way: who teaches a stray dog those feelings? Yet they can and do demonstrate compassion and empathy.
 @eh1702  but thos kids that can barely walk, have already been influenced by their education so it's impossible to claim that
 @p90bridge  I feel very strongly that political parties should make every single would-be candidate or applicant for internal party posts sit a whole battery of psychological testing, and should have a policy of rejecting anyone who scores highly for these antisocial traits.
 @jarkkoaitti287  “she said she never stole or break anything… why do you think the opposite”? 1. She already resorted to at least one lie, about buying groceries. 2. She is a sociopath. Lying is enjoyable, habitual, a go-to first resort. 3. In her self presentation here, there is a strong motive to paint a self portrait of a harmless motive and outcome when deliberately crossing serious boundaries. Like stealing cars from drunk people at parties can seem less inexcusable than stealing cars from sober people at work.
 @p90bridge  not true at all. while words like "anti social" are seen as "negative", it doesnt mean, there are no good sides about it. (e.g.: you can use a knife to slice food and feed a family OR you can kill someone with it). not every successful leader causes harm.  thats a straight overestimation and only shows why its important to step back from the "negative" view of certain words and to stop throwing words like "anti social" etc.. around like free candy. like said in the video, its not just black and white, theres a LOT of grey. tbh most of the spectrum is grey. LOL
​ @Hansgame  I think you sound completely brainwashed tbh, unless you're just one of them like elektra up there
 @eh1702  She also had some favourite places, that would not work if harm is done. I don't judge people by what they think they are or what others think. Only by what they do. If anyone does bad things, it's a bad person, if not, let them be. Many humans can control their doings, those who can't, should be jailed or kept in leash to protect others.
 @camilledabert I have 6 kids and this isn’t true at all. Even babies have empathy. What kids lack is impulse control, so if they feel jealousy or anger they’re more likely to lash out. They aren’t inherently mean at all though. By the age of 7 they are at the age of reason, the time when they ought to fully understand right from wrong.
@Elemenohpea440  okay this is getting ridiculous please define empathy to me.
​@ i am one of "them". i know why i am this way and i know how to work with it to live a "normal" life. i dont harm people. im very liked and loved by my family and friends. i dont see any "negative" aspect about it, as long you dont act out on it. i didnt wish to be born like this, but it is what it is. most importantly is to have patience, try to understand others and forgive "mistakes", theres no "me and them", we are all just people, trying to get along.
 @Hansgame  That explains it. I don't think you should be in a position of power over others. Never ever. We are not "successful" as a society, we are hopelessly doing everything wrong for the benefit of a few sick people. You're too busy being biased to admit that.
 @Hansgame  We shouldn't have to depend on that you continue to "not act on it". That's incredibly dangerous. A moment will come when somebody pushes you, maybe it already has, but just like the lovely ice lady in the video you could easily just glaze over it.
@Hansgame  Having psychopaths, sociopaths and narcissists in power is like having pdf files working in the kindergarten. They might not "act on it", but should we really put ourselves in a position where we depend on that?
Because of course it raises the question. WHY do pdf files want to work in a kindergarten? Psychopaths don't choose politics to make the world a better place, they do it for POWER.
Children can certainly show signs of developing empathy, but it continues to develop throughout their teens and early 20s. A young kid can cry at a Disney movie one minute but then bully a younger sibling and lie to their parents about it the next. Some parents are in denial and idealize their own children.
 @nanahachi9628 yes I noticed this too, it feels good to be kind, but it’s certainly not the motivation for being kind. I just like to help people because life kinda sucks sometimes and people need help.
 @camilledabert  Now, I'm a beavioural biologist and I can say, human children are highly empathetic and helpful out of their own accord. Of course they can be 'mean' and self centered too - but mistaking that for a lack of empathy and kindness is just outright wrong. Human children cooperate naturally, they share the spoils of that cooperation willingly, if some of them don't do it they call each other out over it and correct themselves over those verbal cues. Empathy and kindness are actually key to humans being successful in their ecological niche. Of course there is always a nurture component to those capacities: They need to be formed and shaped according to the specific environment they live in, which is totally crucial as humans live in vastly different environments that are also quite severly subject to human niche construction. But that they can even learn depends on that very inborn capacity.  People who have ASPD are generally have not fully developed those capacities and the abilities to use them, because they lack in that inborn fundament. In itself their behaviours are what one would call an evolutionary instable strategy. That is, if everyone would feel and act like them, human populations would be extinguished. Their existence is only possible in a population that is mixed and in which the normal human behaviour and feeling is dominating. Because as soon as too many sociopaths (or psychopaths) are around, you got a collapse of higher level cooperation. Sociopaths are basically more on the level of chimpanzees in regard to their ability to cooperate, because they lack the preconditions that are basically inborn empathy and tendency to being kind and helpful - which is key to keep on cooperating when there is a personal cost to doing so or when it is temporarily leading to a detriment.  Humans are the most empathetic, most kind, most helpful, least mean, least selfish, most cooperative mammal species - and arguably overall animal. And that is ingrained in our very nature from birth.
They're not sociopaths, they're narcissists it's very simple. Narcissist want attention, validation like her, they like the spotlight, sociopaths don't have those traits at all it's an different breed. She is full of BS 😑You want to meet an sociopath? Meet my brother 35 i live with him i see daily what he does and see the difference btw her and my brother, there is your answer.... My brother is intimidated, predatory stare, he don't blink, he make people very uncomfortable by his stare, but yet people are drawn to him because of his charisma, good looks, he also don't follow society rules at all, and irresponsible, jobless, doing illigal activities, she clearly follow society rules, not an sociopath. Sociopaths: against society rules. She's is an phony and it's funny how people can be manipulated by her. She is an narcissist, it's plain simple. It's funny how women who get interviewed are ''sociopaths'' LOL. Stop believing her, she's is an liar and a manipulator. As i said before meet my brother, and see the differences....
@NicaleATifa  Idk I trust the lady with a doctorate in clinical psychology and a diagnosis over the armchair psychologists in the YouTube comments 😂
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
 @camilledabert  I think your way of viewing empathy is quite similar to Patric and sociopaths in general. A very rationalized way of viewing actions and repercussions and ethics. Empathy is an emotion. You actually feel close to similar emotions that the other person is feeling. It is not transactional meaning that in a very logical way you do something and you get something in return, nor is it limited to this aspect which you perceive as transactional. Empathy is in a way mirroring other people's feelings, which means that many times a person gets distressed by seeing someone else's distress. That's not something learned. Even if there were learned ways to activate this emotion, this reaction itself obviously exists, which means that it's part of our biology. And there are indeed studies and they show that the same areas of the brain are activated when people experience their own emotions and when they observe such emotions in others.
@ but she even said she doesn’t blink as much lol these are social cues that she performs to make others feel comfortable. Sounds like your brother has put you through a lot though.
@You’re just saying stuff now. You’re a fool. Implying that I am a sociopath because of an online discussion is ridiculous. You sound paranoid.
 @elektrakomplexet  Say what you want. You're nowhere near as clever as you try to seem, and you're trying very hard. I know why you're so triggered but as you can see, nobody here is buying it. Cope, I bet you're great at that.
@ I’m not triggered in the slightest. I think it’s amusing that you meet a bit of pushback and suddenly that person is a “sociopath” with an agenda. If it makes you feel better, I am autistic, not a sociopath. But maybe you don’t think there’s any difference.
@elektrakomplexet  Sure, you're just bothered for a myriad of reasons and oh so passionate about letting dangerous people fly under the radar. You throw around big words that you don't seem to fully grasp and continue to repeate how very stupid you think I am. But I know you'll say literally anything now, very clearly.
@ I was bothered by what you were saying, and I explained why. That doesn’t mean I am triggered. You must be projecting a lot because I have never called you stupid, I called you a fool for accusing me of being a sociopath with an agenda. You don’t even understand what I am criticising, so instead you resort to accuse me of “being one of them” and “wanting to protect dangerous people”. Even bringing up pdfiles as some sort of “gotcha” when that isn’t a comparable situation. My main point was how are we going to measure empathy and who’s a psychopath/sociopath, especially when psychology does not even have good measures of that. Especially since many psychopaths are white collar workers with no criminal record, and all the psychological tests rely on criminality or criminal ideation. I also questioned the inherent exclusionary nature of forbidding a group of people being labelled as “dangerous” from parts of society because of lacking psychological evaluations. You could not even answer to how it would work, someone else in the comments did it for you. You don’t seem like a very serious person overall so I’m ending this here.
@elektrakomplexet  Take this with you: If the people knew the truth and were given the option, democracy would have stopped the abuse that has been going on since the beginning of humanity. The people do not want sociopaths or psychopaths or narcissists in power. The people are right. You're in the other 10%.
@ If that’s your take away of what I am saying you’re missing the point. Or just don’t understand it. I think it’s the latter.
@elektrakomplexet  That doesn't even apply to anything I said. Just remember the part about the people vs the other 10%.
@elektrakomplexet  Oh sorry, I was being sarcastic when I said I was gonna read the wall of text. I guess that's where you got lost.
I knew a few would push back against what I wrote. I knew it would probably get ugly. And I think it's very good, it will be pretty obvious what's been going on here, to most people. I'll leave now and probably not engage with this thread any more, unless something extremely interesting happens.  Keep speaking up, people, I think we can find a way to fix this but only if we speak up.
 @camilledabert  Yeah, I heard about the studies. However, I was emotionally neglected by my parents. I still had high empathy from the get go. My cousin of the same age was surrounded by care and love and was always less empathic and internal. I am even more empathic now in middle age and he is emotionally cut off. So much of who we are is innate. Not that you can't shape it with experiences, but you start where start out. Some scientific studies miss the mark. Scientist's also said they proved that your pets don't love you, but just use you for food. I don't believe that study either. A lot of studies are posted b/c doctors are required to produce them, even if they don't have a good subject to study. My husband is a scientist and I've known others, and this is the way it is. So, you need to use critical thinking to decide whether the study has proven their thesis, or is there other data that could disprove it. Personal experience can debunk a thesis, such as the one about pets. I still remember the special relationship with my cat from 30 years ago and I know completely that he loved me. My mom fed him and changed his litter and she told me she didn't understand why he loved me and not him. The difference was I loved my cat and showed it every day. In fact I loved cats from the get go. Was I taught to love cats? No. Same difference.
it's like asking a stranger how their day is and they spit in your face but then apologize and convince you it was an accident.
​@camilledabert  that's not true at all. My children were so sweet, loving, and kind from the beginning. They help me to be a better person. Yes, I teach them, but their inherent sweetness and innocence are inspiring.
This is fascinating to me personally because I taught myself empathy, and now it's almost like I have too much of it. I'm diagnosed with autism and ADHD, and I spent years deliberately changing my thought patterns to focus on empathy, because as a child and adolescent I knew I didn't experience it "correctly" the way other people did. Now I feel empathy for other people, and animals, almost to a hyper degree. Their pain hurts me. I'm happy to give the benefit of the doubt or to even make excuses for other's behavior based on things like their difficult childhoods... In conclusion, empathy can be learned and then internalized if we're invested in doing the work.
 @camilledabert  that is...wrong and a generalization. Empathy is an intuitive emotion and it serves us as a tool to navigate the world from the moment we have agency. Empathy is part of our evolutionary traits, so it comes natural to us. Social environments value and enhance empathy (this enhanced version is what most people understand as "kindness") because it is useful for us in order to coexist together in a collaborative environment.  You can argue that some children show cruelty, jealousy and selfish behaviour, but that is because children are still learning to manage their emotions, so often those negative emotions are experienced and manifested in an uncontrolled way. Also, their minds are not focused on being attuned to their surroundings, but on ensuring their needs are met by their caregivers, cause they are inexperienced, smaller, and weaker, therefore, they are at a disadvantage.  People will reach the ability to feel empathy throughout their natural development, while also learning it from their social surroundings. Some people are able to feel empathy sooner, others later, but its is part of our genetic code, evolved to be a tool to ensure our surviving, as it is being able to feel fear, affection or curiosity.
I mean, she is a criminal though. She stabbed a child. She broke into and entered stranger’s homes. She stole cars. She simply never got caught, but she is absolutely a criminal.
@dewilew2137  A counter-argument to that is that she committed those crimes as a child, when she was too young to be diagnosed as a sociopath, and the behavior stopped following therapy. As an adult she does not see herself as a criminal based on her childhood behavior, which I think makes sense -- most people who commit crimes as children don't identify as criminals in adulthood.
She assaulted another child as a child herself, broke into homes and stole cars.  I’m not really sure where you saw ‘inherent criminality’ get dismissed — she just fortunately mellowed out to nonviolent crimes because it suited her desired lifestyle for more than any other reason.
According to, how development works in the sense of neural pathways, yes empathy is learned, then internalized and therefore felt within by neuro typicals. When you don't set the the neural pathways right, or wire the them wrong way for what ever reason growing up, your brain learns the wrong things or none or "fill in the blank" . So yes, a soziopath did not learn empathy, and a neuro typical learned it. We are not inherently empathetic. First there is no self after birth, then you realiser you are separate from parents (caregiver, etc) then you become egotistical, and so on. The ego development model and neuro science together make this understandable. Also the in depth explanation of each of the 9 stagees of the model are key, In my opinion to explain social structures in large, the differences of these over time, narcissism, and other disorders pretty well.
Ok but empathy and compassion are learned, I experience both easily, but we're pretty confident that infants, particularly newborns, don't experience these feelings. They learn them by being shown them by their caregivers and later by their peers. The main difference between neuro-normative people and "sociopaths" is that neuro-normative people easily and naturally pick up these social emotions, and sociopaths don't. It's the same way people with autism don't automatically come to understand things like context appropriate behaviour or implied meaning when most other people do. It doesn't mean that it can't be learned or understood by sociopaths, it just means that it takes longer, is harder to pick up, and often requires conscious thought and effort (aka masking) to accomplish.
​ @RioRav  and how do you know that "sociopathy" is not a neurodevelopmental disorder? ASPD (the diagnosis that replaced "sociopathy") has impulsiveness as one of its diagnostic criteria, "sociopaths" do show noticeable difficulty in controlling their impulses. But its also even younger than that, babies who cry their parents into sleep deprivation to the point of hallucinations aren't particularly concerned by the wellbeing of their parents. If their mother cries because they won't stop crying, they don't care, they will only stop crying when they feel their needs have been met. They won't do it out of any sense of empathy or compassion. It takes time for them to learn those things, if whatever mechanism that allows that learning to occur is not functioning properly in the mind of someone with ASPD, that would prevent them from being able to learn those social emotions. They would remain with the same emotional capacity they had as a newborn infant.
​ @inmyhead_imhiking  one of the symptoms of ASPD is a difficulty judging or caring about risk
 @camilledabert no, see you already fell prey to the manipulation. One crucial element to empathy and kindness is feeling guilt. Morals and ethics are learned, but even babies empathize when they cry because other babies are crying, for example. People like her will never feel genuine kindness which is why she sells it as morals. And she needs to because if she doesn’t it implies she is flawed and she literally can’t deal with it. She gets something out of that as well and you swallowed it.
Take it with a grain of salt. An entire reddit thread can't even find her public profile. As far as people know she got her degree from a diploma mill.
​ @camilledabert We are taught those things because its in our nature to want to connect with people and protect those that are close to us thus empathy and kindness become naturally occuring emotions/instincts to most 'neurotypicals'. Which is why you're using the word 'taught' because kids watch adults or the world around them to 'learn' empathy, but its different from the way a sociopath would try to learn empathy because for them its like learning about something from a textbook when neurotypicals would be more like absorbing that information like its part of human nature. Alot of things are also naturally occurring human emotions like jealousy, love, etc. Are they 'taught' to kids? Kind of a wrong term to use. If it was necessary for kids to be taught empathy and kindness to learn them , the world would look like a very different place. Its more like the result of human nature and civilization. Much of that is innate.
 @tomaccino Oh well if the social media site Reddit can’t find her… 🤦
this is literally not true? empathy is observed in babies from a very very young age. children are inherently compassionate when all their needs are met
Glad it’s being discussed. But this way of existence is like as described- a pressure to do deviant things as some have a pressure to do good.  Seems like she always felt that way- enough to feel or know her impulses are “different”.  I agree it is perhaps good to have discussions to see who struggles with this “ pressure to do bad things”.  However normalizing too much of this may also be like having no responsibility for neg action that may be taken as well.
 @kimpossible6654  Normalizing something isn’t the same thing as saying it should happen…
"Kindness" is a personal meaning  so what you and everyone else always ignore is the fact not everyone has the same exact morality you do. That means what you consider kind is the same as someone may consider kind.
 @camilledabert  There are actually studies that suggest otherwise. One thesis is that children are born "good", empathetic, willing to help and that only after socialisation starts and they learn to adapt to their surroundings (age 3-5 if I remember correctly) they un-learn some of this inherent goodness.
 @Hansgame everything is deluded from the inside. If we had empathetic people in power, the world would be better off…and the oligarchs wouldn’t be destroying everything and everyone for the sake of money and power. Empathetic does not mean weak…I think the sociopaths and narcissist are pathetic though.
 @camilledabert  Yeahh was told I tried to choke my little sibling by feeding them goldfish at a young age, messing with by rocking the crib etc though so the jealousy's reall 😭
​ @camilledabert yes, but they're not ONLY learnt. Just as with every emotion, there is an innate component to empathy.
​ @p90bridge I wholeheartedly agree with your comment. I don't care how much she thinks she has learnt, that just makes her more dangerous imo
 @p90bridge did you watch the video? Demonizing sociopaths and defining them by their ways of acting out is how they continue NOT getting help and stop them from becoming a being a successful member of society and have them fulfilled in a non harmful way. Very very ignorant of you to be honest, like if sociopathic people exist nonetheless why not rather them recieve care to be a betterment to society and themselves
malindarayallen She literally confirmed it talking about all the criminal activity she did. She just showed that it's also possible to control it and they're not doomed to being a criminal, which we more or less already knew (which is probably partially why we still punish them and don't treat them like insane out of control people).
@Scoring57  thanks for you perspective. I don't mention criminality, so I'm unclear why you're bringing it up in response to me?
@nightmareextract  Yeah I watched the literal criminal tell us exactly what she thinks we want to hear.  They need help absolutely, they also need to be kept away from positions of power and influence, we cannot depend on them consistently not acting on their instincts to be destructive. They can have great lives and get the best possible help without having power over others. This is protection for them aswell as the people.  I know nobody unbiased is gonna argue against me on this.
 @malindarayallen   Maybe you forgot. You mentioned it toward the end of your comment, that's what I was responding to.
​ @Ehuatl  Chimpanzees may be more violent than humans, but they still have functional societies. And bonobos are more peaceful than humans, so I don't think humans are the kindest or most empathetic species on the planet. Bonobos are more peaceful than humans, and gorillas might be, too.
Empathy is a taught human trait, not an inherent one. There are lots of studies on this. That warm fuzzy feeling u get is because uve been taught to feel that way and because u were taught that other people besides you also matter
 @klownofkether6996 it's actually pretty much scientific consensus. There are lots of studies showing empathy is a learned human trait not an inherent one. It feels warm and fuzzy to think otherwise but I think it's nicer that we choose to care not that we're destined to care
 @camilledabert I agree but would like to add children start to be capable of developing empathy at 5-6ish. Before there can be moments of compassion, too, but not a full understanding eg why some screams when I bump my head into their nose😅 This makes sense as a child is and needs to be egocentric to survive and to explore the I before tuning in with the you.
 @camilledabert  sorry, that doesn't explain me at all - beyond the momma's boy I was in pre-K through like 1st grade - what you are talking about is something my brother wen through, but mostly when he was older when my parents wouldnt let him manhandled me the way other older brotehrs were permitted to abuse their younger brothers because "boys will be boys".  My father especially would not have that - but he was also oldest brother to a bunch of sisters (4) before finally a younger brother at the end, so maybe that was it (men are meant to take care of woman, balh blah blah).
 @p90bridge  you only think that because its feel safe to think the people in congress and who run various business are different from you, after all - YOU would never do those same things with power, would you?  How would you even know?  Have you actually been tested?
@xBINARYGODx  She explained her destructive instincs very thoroughly, she gets a warm fuzzy feeling from chaos. I have met people like her. It has nothing to do with me, but yes, I have been consistently honest even when it doesn't benefit me.  Your name is suspicious. Another one trying to manipulate the discussion.
 @camilledabert  children don't learn empathy and kindness. It is natural, just takes time to develop. What can happen is have it be repressed due to external factors, or not exist, due to issues such as psychopathy or whatever else.
 @L-K-Jellyfish  the idea that the brain doesn't fully develop until mid-20s (25, as people like to say) is bs, btw.
Those actually are partially learned. For example you have to ACTIVELY TEACH small children not to hurt animals or other kids, they don't just magically know something is bad
 @camilledabert actually even newborn babies will show empathy. Some kids aren’t empathetic from babyhood but certainly not everyone or even most.
 @p90bridge  she's likely doing this interview because she sabotaged her career beforehand
The problem is the diagnoses. Like typical medicine, they are diagnosing a symptom or reaction. I been attempting to add clarity to the Pathos.  It's difficult when I am up against dogmatic practices and traditions.
 @camilledabert  I'm not so sure. As a child I grew up in a very abusive home, and I sometimes was mean and manipulative towards kids, especially kids that were stronger and older or more privileged than me, but I was excessively empathetic and caring towards animals, even before I could walk or speak I connected deeply with animals and plants and took great care of them. I learned to empathize with humans eventually, but to this day, when I see news of a tragedy, and I hear of people dying, I'm mentally and intellectually empathetic, but god forbid I see an animal in the same catastrophe, it makes me sob uncontrollably.
Empathy is learned. Even the feeling she is describing is a learned behavior. Remember Pavlov's Dog? That is where that emotion comes from. We are taught that kindness elicits good rewards, that it boosts our character and is simply the right way of things, hence why when we do a "good" act, we feel "good." Its the dog salivating at dinner time. A lot of the things she's talking about when learning how to mask is how we learn to internalize ideals of morality, ethics and empathy. Yes, even your 1 year old toddler can exhibit learned behavior, even babies can monitor their parents reactions and emotions and learn the "correct" way to act to get what they need (famous example, a baby can learn to be silent if it knows no one will listen.) Here's a thought, if empathy and compassion are just innate things that all neruotypical people have, that never needs to be learned or practiced, why is there always such a stress on children's media to instill moral and ethical lessons into their audience?
That's exactly what it's like. I don't call people on their birthdays because I want to wish them a happy birthday or because I want them to have a good day. I'd rather just go about my business. But I've learned that if I don't perform that kind of social ritual convincingly, my relationships with people become strained and awkward and that ends up being more of a hassle for me than just wishing them a happy birthday. Now apply that to people getting engaged, having children, losing parents, getting fired. Faking empathy takes way more energy than just having it. That's why we withdraw from people.
@TheGreatWerebear from the moment a baby is born and can see you it begins to study your facial expressions and emotions. Just because your boy started to show empathy at 1 doesn't mean it was in him before that. He was learning all along from you. He is your mirror and will be to a point.
Compassion and empathy are not false. They are constructs of your programming. Our social reality is all a game. Every player plays the game based on their own internal programming. There is no right or wrong programming. For non-sociopathic people their "blindness" is that they believe that their programming is the correct and only true programming. Which one could argue is a form of discrimination and hence hypocritical since discrimination is not very empathic or compassionate.
 @p90bridge  psht. One can get a diplomatic invitation for a variety of reasons. Such as being a spouse's plus 1 to a work event.
@therealCellblock1138  You're trying to manipulate others right now. It's a serious problem that you treat life like it's GTA. It's wrong to lie and manipulate, but for you it's just a game.
Empathy is a fundamentally learned experience, given the concept of being empathetic is arbirary between cultures. To be born with an unwavering sense of empathy doesnt make sense given the boundries must be defined.  Kids are the most selfish and mean beings on earth and that's said with Love! You become good, you arnt born good.
It's really interesting too because of her profession. Even being highly educated in the field, she is unable to understand the innate nature of empathy in the average person. I remember trying to explain empathy to a sociopath, and she just couldn't understand how anyone could have morals without a god to tell them what is right and what is wrong. I don't want to be hateful of these people since it's outside of their control. It's a disability. But at the same time, friendships or worse relationships with them is playing with fire.
 @camilledabert we dont know how much of kindness is taught vs learned but we do know that ur environment almost entirely impacts how you end up showing it in your adulthood
 @camilledabert  Babies under 3 months show evidence of empathy; it is almost certain innate to a degree; how to act compassionately is however learned.
⁠​⁠ @MK-mt4kn she’s speaking to the reality she wants to be in control. As you point out her feelings on not wanting to get caught, go to prison, be without relationships, etc. To be sure, no it’s not a morality in the way you mean it here, but she’s self-aware enough to understand that she can mutually benefit with society by not being destructive to it.
I'm autistic and I think a lot of other people's empathy is fake. People seem to think "I can imagine what you might be thinking" is empathy. As someone autistic, I'm all too aware that people are not mind-readers but a lot of NT folks seem to think they are.
 @dixiemixie5386  Because empathy is an instinct, but children need to be taught how to measure their strength, for example, so they do not hurt others. The word empathy is being used with different meanings in this discussion. Empathy is just a natural instinct towards caring about others’ feelings and being affected by their emotions. It is the ability to imagine how you would feel in another’s place. Children do have empathy, however they do not have a good sense of cause and effect or the ability to understand how their actions impact others, either in a positive or negative way. For example, children need to be taught to touch animals softly, because they are not aware of their own strength and the animal cannot say if something feels uncomfortable. Children who are not sociopaths and are emotionally well regulated will be distressed at the idea of truly harming another person or animal. A sociopath is unable to care for another person or animal in that way.
That’s because that’s how we really experience it. I genuinely wish i could feel empathetic like how i see others experience it. It looks fulfilling and for the most part enjoyable. I only get to fake it and that makes it very tiresome. I have to remember that “oh i should act happy because what they just said is something good that happened to them”. I just can’t connect my emotions like that.
@joecarosella7418  Thanks for that perspective. I really appreciate you sharing that. Wishing you the best.
​ @klownofkether6996  Yes. My son separated older siblings and ensured peace between them before he could talk. It was nothing sentimental or anxious, just a clear statement.
i am a diagnosed psychopath and that is the exact example i use for when people ask me about emotions and compassion
 @camilledabert  wrong. Emotional empathy is innate. Cognitive empathy is learned. People are born empathetic.
@nanahachi9628 It's telling she thinks people do nice things for each other for a dopamine rush like she would do bad things for the same reason. I am not kind to people because it gives me a high, I do it cuz I would hope others would do the same for me (be kind).
 @NicaleATifa I totally agree with your analysis. A sociopath can’t have a long term relationship.
 @eatplastic9133  she said her other child is not like that. What.s your explanation?
 @camilledabert  you have to remember that lack of those things is an abnormality. the lack and trauma is learned.
​ @camilledabert  disagree! Only some psychological studies or perspectives support your idea, not all. I am a psychologist. Please don't make the argument that your own opinion is the only valid one simply because there are some things supporting it. There is enough evidence to support the opposite of your idea.
 @elektrakomplexet  just wanted to say that what you said in this thread made a lot of sense! The person you’re arguing with seems unwilling to confront the inherent ableism in their stance. But I think it’s worthwhile to confront these thoughts publicly.   Psychology, in the wrong hands, becomes a weapon against so many and many of us think we’re “good” because we aim it at “bad” people. But we know “bad” means different things to different people and has changed through time. I wonder how often people think about how they’re pouring their old discriminatory wine into new wine skins.
 @camilledabert  Your arguments are good and made me think about empathy as a learnt emotion. Thank you.
The difference is that people with ASD don't feel compelled to violate other people's boundaries. ASD only harms the person on the spectrum. Sociopathy harms everyone around them.
that's why it's important to remove stigma around many mental illnesses including ASPD
Same fellow AuDHDer here and I relate to a lot of those things. I do feel like this crossover in traits is unfortunately sometimes used to vilify autism as well but if we had better understanding of both these ways of being as a whole it’d be better than it is now.
Yet another AuADHDer here. I thought the same thing when I read her book last year!
I think I'm autistic but not sociopathic at all, I am extremely emotional and very empathetic.
Another AuDHDer and I read her book when it came out and enjoyed it a lot. Yes I could relate to a lot of the masking and social confusion and learned behavior from peers. I related to her logical and rational approach to how she thought out ethical situations. I couldn’t relate to the urges to act out. But I believe her.
i went through the very same listening to her describe her psychological experiences. really love how she emphasised that there needs to be a focus on describing the emotional experiences and not the external behaviour - that's how i first suspected my ASD diagnosis.
Actually same! AuDHD here~! I feel like I have the muted emotion type. Honestly throughout my life I’ve always wondered  w h y  people feel the way they do. Learned emotions are more muted but they’re still there. I never know how to act upon those so I shove em down lol. Might be the concoction of mental illnesses I have as well that’s causing some of it lol.  (It’s goofy because when my anxiety is activated I can feel more but usually only negative emotions, otherwise it’s just mostly muted).
I have not been diagnosed yet but am deffinitly on the spectrum. The way she explained feelings and love between herself and her partners makes sooo much sense to me. It is always so hard to explain, that one just feel different but not less.
Same. I'm thankful she mentioned at the beginning that sociopaths struggle with empathy, remorse, etc. because otherwise I would be freaking out thinking I am one.
I think it's like a horse shoe, autism and pyschopathy are on two opposite ends of the spectrum, while everyone is inbetween. But despite being opposites, we can still relate to pyschopaths, because we aren't like normal people.
 @AlastairGames they are not opposites. Autistic people can be very emotional or be very unemotional. Or very empathetic or lacking empathy. They just show it differently. Her story is relatable due to the need to mask to fit in and feeling like if you don’t you have to then manage someone else’s emotions. Not all autistic or adhd people are very emotional and that’s important to recognise. Yes there’s a bad stigma of assuming people with autism are more logical and unemotional while many are very emotional but that doesn’t mean no one with autism is unemotional.
I was going to comment similarly. A lot of what she told resonated with my experience masking and understanding the rest of the world.  Got to this video by accident. Was a good accident. 👍
Its because masking is considered an antisocial type trait. Its equals parts manipulation and detachment. But I find it funny, because it's actually pro-social, it allows Neuro divergent people to interact with society in productive ways. Neuro typical people just hate having their thoughts process dissected and directed by others. But will use their social pressure to bend yours into shape no matter the cost to your self steem.
I was just thinking the same thing. After finishing this video, I plan on looking up the overlap between Autism and Sociopathy
Absolutely! I’m AuDHD and for many years I thought I was a sociopath. I always had an interest in psychology and when I came across descriptions of sociopathy I massively related (blunted emotions, inability to pinpoint how I was feeling, moderate feelings towards others, wanting to be alone, not being very social, not understanding social rules, high masking…). I now know I have AuDHD with alexithymia and I prefer to be alone 😊
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
@LDJ-r8e  Not being able to empathize with other human beings doesn't make someone a danger to society, though. Plenty of people with ASPD are able to live productive, happy lives without negatively affecting other people, especially with treatment.
I read somewhere about a study that looked at the brains of people on the spectrum, people with ADHD, and sociopathy/psychopath; whereby, they found similar patterns in the brain. This could explain why there could be some cross over.
I am autistic and I have substance abuse issues. I relate way too much to sociopaths for my liking.
AUDHD too, I strangely always end up with covert narcissists. I don't know why but I do
I've been told I'm "on the spectrum" but I have been diagnosed with various labels including sociopathy, psychopathy, bordeline, antisocial personality before that. Yep, done the tests etc too. Not ADHD though. Known people who had ADHD as a combo with being on the spectrum. I think there is "a spectrum" where these things kindof relate or intersect so to speak, but I think there is a bit of a risk with associating them - mostly because the people that I've come across with specifically ADHD and/or autism/aspergers lack certain - how do I put this - "active behavior models" that people who have the "evil labels" do exhibit to some degree. In a sense what I mean is that someone who is on the spectrum for example can be rather vulnerable in ways that someone who is labeled ASPD never going to be - if that makes sense. Mostly because the "psycho cluster" to simplify it means you really truly do not in the least bit give a flying f*ck what people think of you. This is something that is different with people I have met who have ADHD and/or simply being on the spectrum or however you want to call that, without the additional labels in the basket.  Not sure if this makes sense at all. The skinny of it is that it will be a negative for people "on the spectrum" to be "lumped in with psychos" to put it in coarse language. The "psychos" won't care either way - that being the bonus power of the "psycho" thing. * no psychos were hurt in the process of writing this comment ;-)
 @gauner1312  Hm, not sure I understand what you mean, also ASPD is not a mental illness, it's a personality type/trait, you can't take some pill to stop being ASPD except maybe some psychoactives that are banned - if even they work that is. You can have therapy to correct behaviors stemming from ASPD to some degree perhaps, but it doesn't mean you suddenly start caring about stuff you can't care about because they don't matter to you.
 @Roneish1996  Yep, I think it is dangerous to try to lump together ADHD and/or autism spectrum disorder or however they call it right now with the more explicitly popularly "bad" things. Not necessarily because they don't intersect at all, but because it would cause a lot of problems for people who don't need more problems piled on them. To me that would be a pragmatic thing in the sense that adding more stigma to existing stigma is not going to have positive outcomes.
Masking is something all people on the autism spectrum, which includes ADHD, do to some degree
Masking is something all people on the spectrum (autism spectrum, which includes ADHD among others), have to do to some degree to function in society.
I was questioning if maybe I'm not autistic and a sociopath instead lol
When I was about high school age i was very confused about what was “wrong” with me, I thought I was a sociopath because of the performative or manipulative aspect of how I was masking, but turned out I’m neurodivergent as well (HSP/ADHD), I wasn’t diagnosed until age 29. Definitely not a sociopath and actually someone who feels my emotions more intensely than most people. Much happier now that i understand myself and know I’m not alone. These responses prove that!
I was thinking the same thing. There was a time when I had to discern what part of the spectrum I was on, like is it just the AuDHD or is there some personality disorder as well. It's all very fascinating.
As a "neurotypical" person with absolutely zero qualifications, I believe everyone does some flavor of social masking. We all try to pick up on cues from other people for how they think we're supposed to act around them whether we realize it or not.
Yes!  I'm 28F audHD and my best friend is a sociopath.  When they make their own boundary of respecting you they are decent companions for autistic people.  I don't recommend seeking them out because they're more than likely going to try and take advantage of you as a vulnerable person.  We've been together since childhood and learned together how to regulate our emotions/emotional outbursts. It can be complicated and intimate bc I had to study and memorize her tells for when she wanted to lash out and avoid it myself but also try to redirect it. One way we get our emotions out is kickboxing classes. Only with punching bags, tho! I have been spooked when we used punching mits and had to bow out 🤭 I'm not someone that likes presents or big gestures so we get along.  She always remembers my birthday and gives me a card with $20 and helps when I really need it.  If only to "stay in my good graces."
I disagree and think you are fundamentally misunderstanding what she is saying. You are either on the spectrum or you're a sociopath on the spectrum. People on the spectrum are not anything like sociopaths though she is using the same vocabulary i think incorrectly. I base this on over a decade of experience working with adults with autism and having the privilege of loving a few An example is this lady thought DEXTER chose to channel his psychopathy into being a vigilante. Dexter was a child murderer killing pets and random nurses until his father (a cop) FORCED him to become a vigilante or he would either kill him or turn him in.  Dexter is a psychopath as well as a sociopath.  Dexter doesn't just act out... he kills people... any people to serve his own bloodlust.  He does this initially but he also slips as an adult and people die.  That is why its called the DARK PASSENGER and the entire series explores this evil in dexter. I do not think this woman is that and she should not use dexter as an example. Autistic adults are not sociopaths and I would argue they care too much vs care too little.
I'm a bit confused, I thought ADHD people, especially those who are also autistic, were BIG feelers
diagnosed AuDHD, but cannot relate to her experience in the specifics. I relate ofc to the concepts of realizing that I should mimic and mask to be acceptable to those around me, but I def feel those learned emotions. Maybe not in the same ways or extents as NTs but my empathy in particular is very strong.
I think I am one. I have never been diagnosed- but when I was younger I think I could have been. No emotions, no conscious, but after I finally stopped drinking & feeling my feelings-less of a sociopath
Same here.  ADHD and Autism.  I’ve also been deemed ASPD, but I technically have empathy, so not an actual diagnosis.  Strange thing.
I really wonder, in the distant future, if we’ll find that there is some underlying unity to all neurodivergence. So much of what she described here applies to other disorders  (ASD, ADHD, OCD) it’s uncanny.  Really great  interview.
what your experiencing is not like the other. This lady is literally preforming what she has practiced for years in being relatable. imagine, your most loved person in your life dying horribly Infront of you and feeling nothing, you cant. sociopaths cannot be trusted because they inherently take advantage of anyone willing to listen, simply because it's so easy like instant for them. comparing ADHD to sociopathy is the most bizarre comparison. You may have a poor life ahead if someone like this is on any level attractive to you. avoid at all costs and anyone alike. Also, this interview is exactly why sociopaths cant get ahead in any professional carrier, most people would hide their worst attributes in shame due to empathy.
My son is diagnosed autistic and ADHD at the age of 3. He is now 6 and what you described is exactly how he is. I can tell when he's masking or when he's over stimulated and he acts out to release the pressure. He used to be very destructive (hitting, kicking, throwing things) but now he will let out a grunt or yell and take some time alone to cool down on his own space. I love my kiddo just the way he is.
I respectfully disagree that non-sociopaths can never understand...  Rather, those with extremely high EQ - emotional intelligence...(which might take years to develop...) have progressed through sociopathic stages.  At some early point all children are emotionally undeveloped and behave sociopathically.  Thus, as well developed true Super Empaths later in adulthood, high EQ people have the emotional memories and ability to re-live or re-feel those emotions and assess them objectively in context , after we are no longer that person.  This means the very few of us who are "super empathic" actually contain you.  Just as a person with 150 IQ "contains" all the logical processing power of someone with an IQ much lower...say 80 IQ.  Super Empaths DO understand and can revisit that stage of out emotional development that we believe you are experiencing.   We do understand how a person living on the autism spectrum feels because we can imagine (and if we have personal experience wth autistic people) even feel what the experience is like to have a sensory processing system that is not as functional as ours.  Again, compare to IQ.  The person with a super high IQ of 150 will know how to solve the very simple math problems that a person with a 85 IQ score can solve.  That person with a 150 IQ contains all the computational abilities and "logical scope" of the person with a 85 IQ.  SAME AS WITH EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE.  A high EQ person contains all the emotional capacities, the emotional processing abilities of those who have lower emotional system capabilities.  This is just life, my friend.  We have our strengths and weakness, our capacities to learn and evolve.  No journey through life is worth more or less than anyone else's.
 @Puerco-Potter  Yeah, I think it's weird how masking by sociopaths is considered antosocial and manipulative while most people nowadays seem to understand that e.g. autistic people mask because they are scared neurotypical people will see them as rude if they are themselves. I do not WANT TO smile all the time and pretend to like smalltalk but I do it because I've been punished countless times for not doing it. Why would a sociopath do it for different reasons?
 @chew_1993  congrats on your diagnosis, I was diagnosed a year ago at the same age and life has never been better!
 @PRKLGaming  Autism is a spectrum of symptoms. Some people can feel really intensly and some can feel less then an average person. Same with other symptoms - my girlfriend and I are both autistic and I am terrible at picing up social cues while she's great at reading people!
@potfur_z_bagna  I know it's a spectrum, what I'm saying is that "not feeling emotions" is not on the spectrum. It's not about autism but probably something else like being schizoid or anti social.
@potfur_z_bagna  thank you for that. It's hard to tell if I'm doing a good job sometimes. My son is being raised by me, a self aware covert narcissist and his dad a high functioning sociopath. We love our son so much and we're a good little blend that just works.
 @TrojansFirst  My mother (psychopath) remained married for 40 years, until my father got sick and "mysteriously" died suddenly. She was a nurse and I remember her telling him on more than one occasion that if he crossed her, he just wouldn't wake up some morning and that they would never trace it back to her. Which is exactly what happened.
From out perspective we might think the sociopaths are "harming" us but they're not doing it to harm but to fulfill their needs is how I understood. So if you don't want to be manipulated then don't like unless they're socially deviant and are criminals who didn't get the treatment
Oh my gosh, same!  I didn't get diagnosed with ADHD/Autism until much later in life, and... my god, the relief I felt having a name for what I'm feeling.  And that bit where she was talking about delaying going to the bathroom until she accidentally wet herself... I was actually doing THAT EXACT THING while watching this video. The fact that they got someone who actually has the condition to describe how it feels being inside her head is what makes this so brilliant. It's fascinating how many overlaps there seem to be in all the different forms of neurodiversity. As my psychiatrist likes to say, there's nothing inherently good or bad about being neurodiverse - it's just a different way of being human. The world would be a better place if we could all understand and accept all the different ways there are to be human, so that people who need help can access it without stigmatisation and judgment.
Yeah, I've always wondered how often things that we term "sociopathy" or "anorexia" are like... an unholy combination of something like Autism, sensory processing disorders, and/or OCD with a really unfortunate focus.
 @lunalivingston  Guys, I am diagnosed with ADHD & I totally can't relate. If anything, I am too empathetic for my own good. That has nothing to do with ADHD. Look into it
@ actually there’s a connection between people who have adhd and ASPD. Look it up
Yip. I have the same diagnosis and I thought I was a psycho/sociopath growing up. It’s actually shocking how much they crossover 😮
i’m autistic with ADHD as well, diagnosed later in life and i agree; as a process of elimination i once considered that i had ASPD or sociopathy, given the massive empathy gaps i experience. flat affect when i’m not masking and especially when close to burnout. i’m thankful to have sought medical advice and got diagnosed, and was able to learn the distinctions; i feel so badly for those who have experienced so much trauma that they develop Cluster B disorders 💔
 @noth606  as a doctor, I have to say you don't understand the concept of illness.
That’s true; I’m autistic too, and also was struck by how relatable some of her experiences were when I read her book. For example: enjoying having lots of alone time, finding it exhausting spending lots of time around other people, and having a less expressive face.
 @Ocean-lr6oz  Yes, I agree. I am autistic too, and I’ve noticed there is more of a trend recently towards focusing on the inner experience when diagnosing autism, rather than just on the outward behavior, similar to what she describes for sociopathic diagnosis.
I am also AuDHD, and for ages before I got the autism diagnosis (and ADHD diagnosis came much later again) I thought I was probably a sociopath. I couldn't make myself care about other people's lives the way NTs seem to, and I was often seen as calculating and manipulative. Plus the more obvious stuff, like the flat affect. I think the key difference for me is that if I did something wrong, I didn't feel guilt because I couldn't see why it was wrong, whereas I get the sense from this video that a sociopath knows better intellectually that something is wrong, but does it because of that, for the dopamine rush. As an ADHDer, I say lol, what even is dopamine :P
Yes I'm autistic and I've often wondered if I'm a sociopath especially when I'm very depressed, because I just don't really connect or understand another person feeling emotions a lot of the time. I'm not completely devoid of empathy especially for cute animals and young children haha, but it is a struggle often especially when I'm getting burnt out and overwhelmed. But at the end of the day even if it's a struggle sometimes to connect, I do care for other people and feel bad if I hurt them. Heck I even feel bad about inanimate objects sometimes. But having to go through the motions of trying to show the "appropriate" response to stuff when I don't actually feel anything (I usually do eventually, but not until I'm on my own and able to process things clearly) is something I definitely relate to. And mirroring the correct actions to elicit the response expected and acting like I'm in a play, ironically, so people don't think I am a sociopath and don't care at all.
@ that's quite a succinct and insightful way of explaining it!
 @LDJ-r8e  If you want to interact with humans, you're going to meet and interact with some people on the sociopathy spectrum.  They don't all do crimes, and you can't just imprison them for thinking a certain way.  Like she said, sometimes we're talking about children.  It's just an aspect of being human, and living in groups.  Some humans are more low-affect/low-empathy than others, that's just how it goes.  It's healthy to care about these people, because they are people too, and we all have to live together.  It's good to learn about what it's really like to have such a low affect, so we can help children like this grow up as happy and pro-social as possible, and so we can avoid being hurt by them.  Seeing them as all monsters, completely different from normal people, can only make it worse.  She talks about this in the interview.  It's a great interview, you should listen to it.
@ i've gone through a very similar thought process and the idea of it frightened me. but i noticed that i lack the compulsion to harm others so that was a sigh of relief.
This is going to help me understand my dad . ❤ but still he should be more conscious when he destroys things and hurt physically . At lease this women must have consulted . My dad will never
Very well explained and your edit was very eloquent and mature.  And I agree (despite being neither and not able to truly relate) Kudos from me, you are a good one.
as one with aut\adhd i was having the same thing like you, the breaking into people houses really hit home
Autism and ADHD does not present with gratuitous aggression on others. That is the huge difference. Aspd has a slight streak of sadism.
Yep same here I got ADHD too.  Some of the worst verbal harassment I’ve seen online was towards a guy with Anti-social personality disorder & Narcissistic Personality Disorder.  He was open about it and made content explaining it.   But near every single video was hatebombed, and he shared DMs “normal” people regularly sent to him… and it was really, REALLY bad.  I feel so sorry for narcissists, psychopaths, & sociopaths. Every mental diagnosis has a massive stigma around it.   All of it sucks. As someone who has had psychosis because of bipolar, having had a window into it… Schizophrenic people also have it pretty bad. People are afraid of schizophrenic people for no reason…  They get viewed as dumb, or written of as “crazy” and “it’s their own fault for falling into madness” And it’s BS. I’ve met smart & normal schizophrenic people.  I’ve had friends who are schizophrenic.  But next to psychopaths, sociopaths, & narcissists, all of it pales in comparison. These people get told they are monsters by society since childhood.  It’s wrong, and it should be addressed. To imagine if my own child was a psycho, I’d love them anyways.  To imagine some people attack anything they see as non-standard, it’s disgusting, and behaviour that’s simply contradictory.   If the “normal” behaviour is to fiercely attack “outsiders”, I want nothing to do with normal. I protec. I no attack.  All of these people were just kids, they didn’t choose to be born this way, they didn’t choose the material circumstances that aggravated their conditions.  Criticise people for their bad actions, and their poor choices. But leave anything identity-based out of it. It’s sickening.
 @charlottet7379 it’s not just her. The argument she made (which I agree with) is that sociopaths aren’t inherently bad. Just different.  Saying she’s “one of the good ones” sort of keeps the stigma alive. The stigma is the problem.  They didn’t choose to be this way.  Maybe I’m reading into this too much.  In general, criticise people for their bad actions and poor choices, but not their identity.   Their baseline outward identity, doesn’t offer much insight into who they actually are. People aren’t stereotypes or caricatures.
I'm not calling her evil but I don't think it's a bad idea to avoid people like her with low affect. I'm not going to put myself in the wrong place at the wrong time to spare her or your feelings. I will not be ashamed of looking out for my own safety and wellbeing.
It's pretty rich for you to tell people they should be ashamed of wanting to steer clear of someone who is incapable of feeling shame, by the way.
@ nah, you’re literally arguing for prejudiced bigotry. It’s hardly ever warranted, & the stigma surrounding it directly contributes to the problem.   Violence & criminality would be a less common outcome, if more people were aware that they are sociopaths, and sought medical care. This would be only a good thing.  This could only be done if the stigma was addressed. Because, more people would be willing to get diagnosed in the first place.  Or perhaps people would be more educated, with a more human perspective, and that would allow them to identify it within themselves.  These are people with a medical issue that needs attention, and what you just think they shouldn’t receive treatment?  Oh so what? We let it get bad for them, while actively making things worse for them, and expect violence not to happen?   Harm would be reduced, if they weren’t subjected to a stigma. Do you want harm to be increased?
Omg yassss someone I am very close to is like you and we had this very same conversation about them Being a possible Sociopath.  It in the moment it shocked and scared me.   What can I do to support them?
That’s part of why it’s so important for people on the spectrum to be aware of personality disorders. It’s easy to relate to the neurodiversity in personality disorders too, but it’s important to recognize the differences.
I'm autistic as well and I agree. I have all the feels, but I understand the idea and can relate for masking and stuff. Especially the bits were we aren't influenced by emotions the same way. While I have really big feelings, I know they're a part of me and how I react doesn't need to correlate to others ways of reacting or caring. A friend coworker and I who have had certain traumas, recognized a new guy at work who really does seem to be sociopathic. Our reactions were so different though. I was fine around him, if not more comfortable because if we were alone he didn't mask so I knew where I was with him. My friend coworker was terrified for literally no reason aside from the flat affect when alone and fake charm around people of influence. The worst he did was ignore people he didn't like (me 😂) 🤷‍♀️
I’m with you, awaiting ASD diagnosis but an ADHD. Trauma and high masking surely assumptions are made by . Scary
It's good to listen to people warning us of danger after all. I did some research and she doesn't even have a public profile, no published thesis or who gave her a PhD, no workplace, nothing. At best she's a book author.
 @user-os1mx1ol6r  really not, that is the danger of preconceptions and generalities. My sister is a diagnosed sociopath and narcissist yet I rarely have a problem with her, when she hurts someone it is because she does not understand but she has never done it intentionally
I don't know if she's evil, but I think that believing absolutely everything she possibly is making up (like: when she claims she "does NOT enjoy the hurting of another, just the euphoria afterwards". That just sounds made up to me, because it seems completely illogical🤷‍♀️) is in real life dangerous to you, if this were a person you would associate yourself with. Just please be careful and don't trust too much, these type of people like to twist and take things out of context from other conditions and add it to their own to maintain a positive image. It's like with a predatory animal, please remember they ultimately care only about what they can put in their belly.. Ever read Red riding hood, where the wolf says anything to convince Red he's well-meaning😒Well it's the same situation with this person😟 Is it really worth your while to trust such a person.. Just some food for thought, please be careful out there🙂
Same here.  I also have AuDHD.  I either feel everything, including someone else’s feelings turned up to high…or nothing at all.
@Annelie_perhonen5 That just sounds what my teachers and parents would say to me when I told them i am unable to focus for more than 15 minutes. "You're making it up, you're lying, it's completely illogical". The only reason you're accusing her of making it up is that you've been primed to think of her as a dangerous monster.
Someone else even described some of what she said as similar to OCD. It’s fascinating how many neurodivergencies are similar to each other
 @DeathnoteBB  fascinating how all of them are related to the gut biome.
 @DeathnoteBB  the term "neurodivergence"  was created to capture all the outcomes of certain things being in the food.
@tomaccino  she has insta and lots of sources state where she got her degrees from, and she came up on a psychopathy awareness organization. I dunno why you were unable to find stuff. 🤷‍♀️
@potfur_z_bagna  Please think about it more carefully: Isn't it illogical for her to say she "enjoys the euphoria afterwards, not the hurt she caused to someone". Please think more carefully what exactly is illogical about her statement and think through what I actually said, did I truly say she is a monster.. I think in this harsh world, we all need to deal with these people with realism. Do you really want to risk being in the wrong place at the wrong time with her... Realistically speaking🤷‍♀️  I don't think your comparison about what your parents said can be aplied here to what I said, because this is an individual case that has to be evaluated separately from that. If I use another example to explain this principle: The police has to individually evaluate case by case, who seems illogical and unbelievable in what they are saying.. Please don't put your trust in everything a sociopath says, and stay safe🙂
Look, the thing it just doesn't make sense. How can someone who feels no emotions, have a hard time because she can't adapt to society? They just wouldn't don't care. If it's hard for her i would question her diagnosis tbh, being numb and "not feeling" plus this type of "criminal behavior" can be caused by so many other things, depression, anxiety, anger issues, that doesn't mean they don't feel!! Just have a hard time understanding and dealing with their emotions, autistic people expecially, they have a hard time understanding emotions, doesn't mean they don't feel, after all they're a part of causes meltdowns and being overstimulated. A sociopath doesn't have that. They're empty, always. She said the girl was "provoking" her but how can you provoke someone who doesn't feel? She's eitheir lying or her diagnosis is wrong. As she herself said, the diagnosis "sociopath" is not even used anymore.
This makes me feel like sociopathy isn’t a thing. It’s a certain pattern of coping mechanisms to deal with difficulties regulating thoughts and emotions. Well, actually that might make it a legitimate diagnosis if it’s a specific pattern. But I don’t think it’s a lack of empathy I think it’s a different approach to dealing with difficulty and stress. Some people turn to drugs, which similarly blocks off emotion and empathy, because it’s often too much to deal with sober. Her description of her behaviours sound very similar to those of people prone to addiction. I wonder how much of it is her ability to recognise emotions, and how much of her not recognising emotions is a defence mechanism. She says she doesn’t have a desire to engage in pleasurable activities, but she does: she describes her destructive behaviours brought her relief. Not going to the toilet at the right time is a sort of behaviour: clearly she got something from that, she delights in telling the story. And it fits with her “being in spaces she shouldn’t be” description of her relief behaviours. In general it seems like she delights from the relief of being able to identify as a sociopath. It explains her difficulty in resolving her emotions and feelings, or lack thereof. It makes that difficulty okay, socially and mentally. Empathy is a difficult thing to feel. And when one struggles to shut off feeling empathy for everything, it is exhausting. So having a reason to shut it off is a relief. It is comfortable, compared to living in that undiagnosed unknown.
 @austinhernandez2716 I think we all are, but how we respond to the extreme emotions is the end result here. For some, shutting it all off because it’s all too much is one coping mechanism: whether that’s through drug use or a disconnection from empathy by getting some kind of diagnosis like sociopathy where you almost have an explanation or “excuse” to shut it all off. As I said in my last comment she clearly responds to certain emotions and situations, where she seems to be in control (not going to the bathroom at the right time, breaking in, stealing stuff, causing pain). That reclaiming of control can be a response to a sense of a lack of control over emotions in other situations.
Yes I agree as someone with AuDHD as well!!! I’ve had a LOT of the same thoughts that she has had. Really interesting
I thought the same! When she was describing the feeling of emotional claustrophobia and then the release after acting out, it made me think of how I feel before and after a meltdown. Like you said, it's not 1:1, but it definitely gave me some perspective!
It's possible to have empathy for people like this whilst acknowledging it's a good idea to engage self protection and keep away from them. People that struggle to feel empathy are unfortunately capable of being very dangerous indeed.
As a fellow autistic/adhd person I 100% agree. Societal "norms" that most people tend to follow have always been something I over analyze (meaning I ask myself everyday why tf people do them lmao) For instance, caring about doing "good" or "bad" in school. Wearing makeup/ doing hair every day. Being friendly/open to new people. Obsessing over looks + weight. Needing to be liked/having lots of friends. Being people pleasers. I've of course participated in pretending to care about these things at one time or another, but now that I'm older and have learned more about my diagnosis and un-masking, I can really stop wasting energy on those superficial things. Most things are completely out of out immediate control, so why waste energy worrying about it?
Literally like this woman just spilled her guts in this almost 50 minute video and explained the condition very eloquently only for people to act like she’s a monster just for being a sociopath??? Like hello? She’s still a human
Came here to say this, even the relief of pressure by being destructive is relatable. I feel like there is a lot of overlap
If you had ever been on the receiving end of a sociopath you would understand where people are coming from saying she is dangerous. I can't understand why these people are allowed to become therapists. I guess there is lots of prey available in her field.
 @stealthwarrior5768  Not sure who you mean with 'we', I was speaking for myself
Sr. Sam Vadkin has said autism and narcism are actually a bit the qame
I am you….and the one thing that sets us apart from her is empathy ❤
Same, also AuDHD and I found a lot of this incredibly relatable
- Unstable relationships and work life - Double empathy problem and relying on logic instead of empathy - Flat affect, alexithymia, higher pain tolerance - Impulsive, obsessive, immature, inappropriate, violent stigma - Comorbidity with ADHD and addictions  Those with ASPD are more calculating, whereas those with ASD are more vulnerable, but they don't exclude each other. Also, everyone masks and manipulates to some extent.
I'm autistic with OCD! When she was talking about breaking into people's houses, I totally understood. I had a similar impulse--to enter people's homes, because I wanted to open the door and look inside (I didn't have to step inside). But because I'm not a sociopath and I definitely felt awful invading people's homes, I knocked. But man if no one was home, it was so hard to walk away.
​ @stealthwarrior5768 I think you are getting your personality disorders mixed up, mate. You are probably thinking of a malignant narcissist, which I've been on the receiving end of, and barely escaped in one piece. Mild to moderate sociopaths can present really similarly to those with ADHD (myself) and ASD (also myself),
Also AuADHD. Since traits in autistic persons tend to come as hyper- or hypo-, you can get AuADHD kids with low impulse control + low empathy, which does look and feel very similar to ASPD. The thing that usually cinches the diagnosis in one direction is criminality. ASPD persons tend to act out in criminal ways, especially before they learn to mask well. But it's super interesting, right? I've read a lot into emotional versus intellectual empathy, as I only have the latter, and I've always been fascinated on whether there's a real practical difference.
 @Puerco-Potter do you think it’s easy for neurotypical people to interact with neurodivergent people? No offense, but neurodivergence goes against evolutionary traits that humans find helpful. Reading facial expressions, body language, etc to determine if someone is a threat. Interacting with neurodivergent people can be extremely stressful because your body is perceiving them as a threat since they are often exhibiting antisocial behavior.   No one is trying to mess with your self-esteem. There is just a way that neurotypical humans act and it comes naturally—so of course they don’t understand people who can’t act that way naturally and try to avoid them. It’s literally evolutionary traits.
 @user-os1mx1ol6r  ASD isn't harmful if it's understood and accommodated like any other condition which can be disabling. Society makes us disabled by not understanding it. ASD people are more likely to be harmed by neurotypicals, so what does that say?
potfur_z_bagna The only 'challenge' she talked about is some ethereal "pressure"  😄 It very well might be true and unpleasant in some way, but not a greater challenge than most people feel. We all deal with our problems, wish it was just some 'pressure' we felt. So acting like there should be some great understanding for her because of that is a little over the top   And the reason why people are saying what saying to you about sociopaths is because preying on empathy and manipulating emotions is pretty much the first skill sociopaths learn. You didn't display that so much but mainly talked about the parallels you see, but that could be a gate way to thinking they have more qualities in common with you or that they're just like you more than they actually are. The reality is that sociopaths are what they are and you have to be aware of that. It's like a cute lion, people can appreciate the lion but they're also right to warn you that it's a lion and it might cause severe harm because that's just what lions do. So if you choose to play with it you still have to remember it's a lion, even if it's the best, most social lion in the world
A lot of people are bringing their preconceived prepackaged concept of what a sociopath is without having actually understood this woman's story as presented. It makes me question if they even watched it.
See, this  is likely why my former friends (one autistic and one sociopathic) seem to get along so well they’re as thick as thieves. It also got toxic and codependent. I don’t think my sociopathic friend’s hubby suspected it. I think he has regrets. She persuaded hubby that having her autistic friend live with them and their two young sons was a good idea. It’s been weird. I had a falling out with sociopathic friend.
Like him, I'm tired of try'n to heal This tomcat heart with which I'm blessed Is destruction lovings twin? May I chose to lose or win? Maybe when my turn comes I will have guessed👻...
There are several people with autism in my workplace. A lot of my "normal" co-workers are uncomfortable around them. I find people with autism refreshing. All the people with autism that I've encountered who were verbal were extremely straightforward. No silly time wasting hidden emotions wrapped around their words. Makes me wonder if us socios and you autists are similar enough to be psychological cousins 😂
 @Faboostic  sociopaths do feel emotions, they just don't have the same range of them as non-sociopaths. Please read like an wikipedia article or something. The way you talk about them is extremely dehumanising and sounds like a very handy excuse to harm them without remorse because "they don't feel anything anyways".
Be aware, this is the beginning of comprehending the Pathos. The tendency to categorize things as black & white has bit us before, countless times.  The labels help people to make sense of their world, even though the label may still be inaccurate.  Everyone typing a message or comment here is expressing a form of sociopathy.
​ @AlastairGames  Wouldn't BPD be a more fitting opposite, what with the overabundance of empathy/emotional "awareness" (which causes problems due to having no coping strategies for it)?  Not that I'm trying to pit mental illnesses against each other or anything lol
 @useful-engine  perhaps! I suppose what you describe could be in a similar position. It comes down to, as you say, the empathy and emotional awareness. Pyschopathy/sociopathy is like a complete rejection of the emotional/empathatic body. (Which, because of the craziness in our cultures, pretty much every one done does to some extent, but we don't take it as far.) This means the psychopaths have to learn empathy intellectually, and mimic the behaviors. But learning data is not the same as actually feeling empathy. This is similar to autistim types, but it's in reverse: they feel a lot empathatically, but because the world is crazy, they have to learn to adapt to it in order to fit in with others, which causes intellectual development and behavior mimicking to become a good coping strategy.
 @useful-engine  to put it simply. One end of the horseshoe, are people with no empathatic feelings, and on the other are people that feel a lot of everything. Big hearts, vs no heart.  Most people are in between those extremes. But because we have to all get along together in this world, we have to act like the people in the middle (masking).
Same, I'm diagnosed AuDHD, and I'm sitting here thinking to myself "I wonder if I'm a sociopath... probably not, I'm just autistic lol"
Same! fellow AuDHDer here and can definitely relate with flat effect, masking, and not getting that validating "feeling" from doing good deeds or being acknowledged, but any acting out was/is usually in the defiant spirit of justice, activism, or protecting someone/something other than myself.
 @evelynbeverley2277  Children are not sociopaths, they lack an understanding of the world around them, how their actions affect others, and how to identify more complex feelings in other people. Sociopaths just don’t care. No matter how many times you explain it, they lack the innate ability to feel others’ pain as their own. Conversely, it is actually difficult for people who have a strong degree of empathy to “return” to a time where they had no empathy, because normally, that doesn’t exist. It’s not like IQ, where you can learn multiplication and still remember how to add to find the solution. There is no natural progression between one state and the other in the case of sociopathy and non sociopathy.
 @StrayChoom She is literally talking about how hurting another human being gave her a “state of euphoria”. A person with autism might accidentally say something rude, because of a missed social cue, people with schizophrenia can become dangerous if they are having a hallucinatory episode, though it is no more their fault than if it was anyone else reacting to anesthesia for example. A person with Sociopathy or Psychopathy intentionally and knowingly hurts and manipulates people, not because they lack awareness of what they are doing or that it has a negative impact on the other person, but because they derive pleasure from causing others pain, or they simply do not care if they are hurting other people. You can try to class sociopathy as just another way that people are “different”, but it’s hardly the same. There is a reason most people have an instinctual aversion to sociopaths, and it’s because of it developed as a survival mechanism over millions of years of evolution.
While I doubt I'm sociopathic, as someone AuDHD, more of it is relatable than I expected. Exactly the things you said.
Agreed.  As an individual with audhd I can relate to her lack of dopamine with kind acts except I do get dopamine from those but the relief after completed tasks is never the same relief for me as it is for a neurotypical person.  So much overlap with nuerodivergent brains.  I can see the sharp contrasts tho.  Def gives me a bit more compassion for their experience too.
​ @Wes-r6w4b I totally agree. Neurotypical people just mask so fluently that it becomes part 9f their personality. But that's BS, it's still masking
I have to say, you are so clever in how you sold the cheapest casket to your relative. You identified multiple selling points kind of thin air and pushed them all forward one after the other so it felt undeniable. Idk man that's a massive skill right there, very cool and quick thinking
20.000 dollar for a casket.. Man, what world are we living in. Well done though.
As an AuDHD person I can heavily relate to the way you handled the situation and your impulse to react in a less friendly way. That's so interesting and cool! lol
I too am the autistic family member called up upon when someone just wants a very blunt dose of reality lol. I am the go to for an “honest opinion”. I feel it is more appreciated now as I begin my thirties… it was not praises when I was a kid. I’m still me, guys.
I've done that while vehicle shopping with my friend.  I disagreed with everything the salesperson wanted to charge my friend, and eventually my friend got a reasonable deal.  He got a handshake and a smile, I didn't. 😂  I didn't know at the time that I was on the spectrum, but looking back it makes a lot more sense.
You remind me so much of my best friend who‘s also on the spectrum!!😊 He helps like you do- so far not with funerals but similar situations when I or someone else needs someone really rational and not swept away by emotions. You just reminded me how thankful I am for him.🫶🏼
She’s very articulate and introspective. I  have diagnosed traits of ASPD and the way she describes her childhood is so relatable.
It's also demonstrative of the spectrum involved, and very telling about the differences between sociopathic people who are law abiding and tend to refrain from harming other people, and those who choose to invest in pursuing that feeling of "I don't care" and relieving that internal pressure as much as possible. My father has been diagnosed with ASPD, and didn't ever question his sadistic drive or try to curb the desire to hurt others/violate boundaries. It's really a matter of valuing all the other things life has to offer above the need to relieve that pressure and experience that euphoria. If she had a lot of childhood adversity, like abuse, or a socioeconomic status that restricted her from many gratifying opportunities, I think she might not have decided to refrain from her petty criminality, and may possibly have escalated it into something profitable.
I never feel compulsion to act out or hurt others. Well, maybe in early adolescence I did.  There's certainly an enjoyment from pushing boundaries of what is acceptable though lol. I've never been diagnosed or anything, but I've always struggled with empathy.
Nope. I have OCD since I was 5, and I don't feel GOOD when I'm doing rituals, I feel anxious and I want to stop. It's not how OCD works!! Also, she has some dangerous ideas. Normalizing this, especially for psychopaths, can give them a weapon, or a way to weaponize therapy terms. 'Oh, yeah, I did this crime because I have low affect disorder, you can't bully me.' We don't want that.
 @millie9814 right but do you feel relief after you did the ritual? That’s the anology. Pressure = fixation. Acting destructively = acting on fixation. Euphoria / apathy = temp relief from obsession.
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
Definitely the argument for personal emotional release and prioritised self fulfilment is a convincing argument
​ @LDJ-r8e  you totally missed the point. the point is they CAN "help it" but they need help to get there. It's not actually healthy to be prejudiced to a stigmatized group. It's normal but we all need to work on it. The solution is not to "just lock up all those crazies". Work on your ablism.
@millie9814  i have OCD too. it’s not the feeling GOOD doing the ritual, it’s the sense of relief that you’ve done it, even if you feel bad for doing it after. that relief is the dopamine hit
​ @weaviejeebies so... it is a choice? You're admitting it? Everyone with ASPD who has hurt someone CHOSE to do it... correct ?
​ @Juan_lauda prioritizing yourself in every situation, disregarding others, and not feeling remorse ? Definitely a safe and trustworthy person who isn't here for some kind of gain
Apparently I thought this analogy was only fitting for a small part of OCD and rituals and thoughts happening with it. During the "ritual" mostly the patient doesent have a feeling of control or even it, whatsoever. Due to the immense emotional stress the body and mind are going through. But its no magical, misterious unknown thing, especially after a few sessions of therapy. Its, within the disorder, a totally explainable prozess, its roots within the patients psyche and life and experiences, the  problems behind the compulsive thoughts and rituals as a coping mechanism for deeper problems (in most cases). My only concern was the point of OCD being inexplainable for patients, which is only true mostly during the stressfull ocd-situation and without therapy/information/education and self reflection
I would *not call that OCD.  OCD is a different thing, NOT the urge to harm or to violate boundaries.  OCD takes on behaviors that don't seek to do harm or violate, as I understand it.  You're mixing apples and oranges, you're conflating different conditions.
​ @millie9814 imo you are 💯% correct. Quite shocking how many in the comments do not get it. OCD and motivation and pathology for that is no way analogous to aspd! The fact she uses weird analogies and places motivations on other 'normal' people or people with some neurotic disorders is wild. The fact she is a psychologist is crazy to me.
Her equating her ASPD with OCD was a clever manipulation…  …which both had its intended effect & did not.
Sociopathy is incapable of expressing as antisocial.  That is a gross misunderstanding.  Socio is in the spelling of the word.  Apathy is antisocial.
 @millie9814 yes, but you wouldn’t be doing the ritual if it didn’t give you something. I compulsively bite my cheek. I hate that I do it but it gives me a sense of relief, which is why it’s a compulsion.
 @bereal6590 ​​⁠ lol your take is sociopathic! It would be such a benefit to society to understand the inner experiences of people predisposed to criminality. If punishment were a deterrent, we wouldn’t have crime. Dismissing her constructive advice in favor of just shouting shout “bad” at antisocial behavior in hopes that shame will eventually work is practically criminal negligence. 😂 you can take it with a grain of salt, but whatever is driving you to dismiss it outright isn’t coming from a place of concern for others.
@breitfart5285  this is a disingenuous take and an obtuse response, I will take no heed of your utter trolling nonsense, thank you enjoy your day
 @LDJ-r8e  Your condemnation reveals your true character hidden behind a moral superiority complex.
 @kevdog261 what a weird absolute to take after such a nuanced explanation. Not all with APSD are evil and you shouldn’t stigmatise them
​ @Mocha-bear-1  they'd tell you "oh she's lying about everything and manipulating you" there's no winning with those that refuse to empathize
 @tzadik.  And? Do you only empathize with those that do the same back? I hope we don't have to see things so transactionally
 @prosamis  no, I'm not a sociopath. I empathize normally. I adjust it for those less deserving, such as sociopaths
 @tzadik.  Then you agree that we should empathize with sociopaths and not simply dehumanise them?
 @prosamis your reading comprehension could be improved. No, I believe we should actually identify and stigmatize sociopaths. They are the source of all that is wrong in the world.
 @tzadik.  My reading comprehension is just fine. I like to give people the benefit of the doubt, especially since you mentioned that you "empathize normally".  My definition of empathizing normally is to empathize without discrimination. Seems you don't see it that way, and I find that sad. Everyone deserves empathy to some degree, and most people don't choose to be sociopaths and psychopaths.  I can empathize with people being the way they are not by their choosing and such people deserve a place in the world that isn't prison
 @tzadik.  quite the opposite actually. You are displaying a lack of empathy for people that were born with a condition. They can’t help it. Like the lady said in the video, would you not want to help a child born with this?
 @chilli1115  i would say its smart to return a sociopaths lack of empathy back unto them. Have you dealt with one before? She herself spoke on how she views people and the pain of others, how she feels towards acts of generosity, etc.. why would I hesitate to respond in kind to someone who most likely couldn't care less about how I'm affected by them?
 @tzadik.  you can be wary and set boundaries whilst still trying to understand the way others work and approaching that with empathy. Humans are very complex beings and labelling all with a condition as “evil” is a cop out imo. But you’re entitled to your own opinion.
 @chilli1115  youre right, and by my opinion I view her as negative and harmful. You can act like what she is isnt disturbing, but if your kid was stabbed at school or your house was broken into im certain you wouldn't have much empathy to offer her.
 @prosamis  she'd love for you to believe morality is suggestable and a sociopaths lack of moral health is acceptable, but, unless you are another unstable person, normalizing these behaviors aren't normal or socially acceptable and make you more of a toxic enabler than an empathetic fellow human.
 @prosamis Empathy is not what you lead with here - you should be aware, cautious and pragmatic.
@Lotusflowerinbloom444  and dehumanisation is the extreme of caution and pragmatism. It's nonsensical and irrational. It's the refusal to see people for what they are, people, all of which capable of evil, all of which capable of good  Caution is important, of course, but what we do now is simply irrational
@tzadik How do you know you empathise normally? Define normal. Plus deserving is such a condescending word. Do you understand that people are born with those traits? This is basically the kind of way of thinking that lead to classifiying people in better and lesser, also known as racism, agism, antisemitism and a lot of ugly word ending in ism.
There is no such a thing as evil. Its a word we put on things to distance ourselves from it, in order to "save our selves" and to remain "innocent". "I am not evil, those people are". Like how people cannot comprehend the atrocities  of the third Reich, calling it inhuman and evil. Almost putting it in the realm of supernatural. Other. But if we push things away like that , instead of trying to understand it as a part of possible human behaviour we cant prevent it. Calling something evil is a way to dismiss and reject things we dont want to think about to deeply
 @nekot9274 and yes you’re absolutely right . There are people so misguided and self-righteous that will use these concepts like deserving to commit atrocities to the non deserving.
 @chilli1115  yes they are, and they will throw you under the bus as soon as you turn your back
​@kevdog261  Yes, but there is a fine line between psychological issues and being pure evil. Even though it's a part of one's phycology. What do you think of being good is that the natural phenomenon of your behaviour or you are creating a social facade to blend in with others for your own benifit. Either ways you do what you desire but when your decisions become harmful to others not only that if you often enjoy them then you are becoming evil sometimes without even knowing yourself.
We are far better off not labelling everyone on this spectrum of human emotion. We arent disordered or diseased because how emotion is experienced. Buy into this crap too much and soon enough everyone will be taking 100 pills a day. That is their goal after all.
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
Where have you been in the last 20, 30, or 50 years?
Spoken like someone who is already on an FBI watch list 😂
 @kevdog261 no they basically just lack the ability to express emotion or empathy.   Which can lead to being able to do pretty evil things rather easily.
Patience runs out on the junkie:face-purple-smiling-fangs: The dark side hires another soul Did he steal his fate or earn it? Was he force fed, did he learn it? Whatever happened to his precious self control:face-fuchsia-tongue-out:?
She said that she didn't think the destructive behaviours should be normalized. Only that the psychology behind them shouldn't be stigmatized because it complicates and damages treatment. These people need help to navigate their lack of emotion, labeling them as undeserving and disturbed/dangerous will only be harmful.​ You don't have to like someone to treat them as an equal.  @tzadik. 
Yes!  This comment is incredibly underrated.  The dogmatic approach to health has been rough for someone in the field.
 @Mocha-bear-1 did she not say she stabbed someone?   Are we just gonna skip over that. What hasn’t she admitted to doing?
@ but does it make her pure evil as the original post says. Or is she doing more for the world by bringing awareness about this mental disorder. Honest question!
​ @kevdog261 This is a very narrow-minded and uninformed opinion.  Serial killers tend to be extremely high on the psychopath spectrum, however not all psychopaths are killers.  For example, most special forces members tend to rank highly on the psychopathic spectrum and for that reason are found to be able to handle a lot of pressure. The same goes for high ranking members of large companies such as a CEO.
 @fsociety.dat101  narrow minded and accurate are not the same thing,  a sociopath/psychopath is 100% all the way over on the psychopath spectrum whether they are a serial killer or not,  most know they cannot get away with murder so they don't do it  alexithymia (not feeling your emotions) is one minor aspect of psychopathy, but the main feature is the extreme narcissism practically to the point of them seeming like a crazy person.    for example any psychopath/sociopath would have no problem killing a baby if they believe they could get away with it, then if you get angry at them for killing your baby they would get angry back at you because they truly believe you are persecuting them and they did nothing wrong
 @tzadik.  So you are more likely to feel empathy for a person without ASPD who does horrible acts than a person with ASPD who decided to use their disorder to help other people even if it is for their own benefit?  It’s interesting that a diagnosis makes you look at someone so differently.
That we know of. One can only be convicted if one is caught.
A good home? Where she was never allowed to express herself authentically and her mother needed everything to be "perfect" even if it was untrue... a child shouldn't have to walk on eggshells to that extreme. She should have been able to express herself, like disagreeing when she felt or thought differently about something.
 @SkyeAten i agree with you, but i think they meant that she lived in a stable home with enough resources. She also says that almost no one is prepared for encountering sociopaths, even less knowing how to raise one.
When I was six, new people moved into our neighborhood and they had a son the same age as me. We met on the street when we both went out to ride our bikes and, hoping to be friends, we started playing together. Not long into that, I started to realize something was a little off with my new friend.  Then, one day, as we were playing on the side of a dirt hill behind his house, he pointed to a boat in the bay some miles away and said that his dad was on that boat. I casually mentioned that we couldn't tell which boat we were seeing so we couldn't know if his dad was on that very one. He came walking up to me and when I turned to look at him he tried to stab me in the eye with a stick. Left a small scar on my left cheek. That was more than 40 years ago.  He's an insurance salesman now.  *Amendment to this post - Looked him up for the first time in years. He's an "insurance company executive" now.
I once knew a funeral director whom I suspected was a sociopath. He was incredible at his job, mastering not only his own duties but also the specific needs of various religions. If a pastor or a priest was not available as far as possible, he stepped in.  He made people feel safe and heard, earning the admiration of the community. Yet, he didn't seem to truly understand many "normal" emotions. Still, he knew exactly how to respond in a way that gained him friends, prestige, and a lot of money.
This is so interesting! I'm autistic, and there's a lot of misinformation about how autistic people experience emotions, especially empathy. We get called sociopathic sometimes because we ALSO mask around neurotypical people. But the major difference is that, when you ask us, "How do you feel your feelings," a lot of times, it's very deeply. We DO feel shame; we DO feel regret. We tend to have high emotional empathy, but struggle with cognitive empathy. We tend to have low affect not because we aren't feeling something intensely, but because we don't automatically emote the way that neurotypicals do. When I talk to someone, I have to devote a lot of energy to making a "listening face" and changing my expression appropriately. When I'm with people I know well, I usually look away from them often during the conversation and will just SAY what I'm thinking/feeling rather than trying to express it with my face. Looking away from people's faces actually helps me process what they're saying because faces are SO expressive and so intense that my nervous system gets overwhelmed with all the incoming information--but when you do that with neurotypicals, they think you AREN'T listening. And if I just say what I mean rather than trying to convey it with my face, most neurotypicals will project meaning onto the words as if I have a hidden agenda because that's how NTs typically communicate. But as an autistic person, I REALLY AM just asking when you're planning to start on dinner, not insinuating that you should do it NOW or that you're not doing enough around the house or that your schedule should be on my terms 😅 I'm literally just asking for an estimated time so I can figure out whether to eat a snack or not. So, I get what she means about just acting to try to survive, enough though my internal experience is completely different--people just really don't like when others behave differently than they do, no matter the reason.
I had a dating rule: "never date a psychologist/psych major". Because very often it's people with unusual psychological issues that turn to psychology to learn about themselves.   This woman is an inspiration in a weird way. Had an issue, found a way to conquer it the best way she could.
"microdosing mischief" seems like such a perfect way to describe her coping behaviors.
Honestly, as someone with a longstanding childhood diagnosis of Autism, I would’ve loved her being my therapist. A struggle I had with my therapists often was that I felt like they were pitying me or constantly trying to baby me because I had this childhood diagnosis of Autism, and I genuinely truly hated it. I wanted someone to just talk to me as a blank state and give helpful feedback. And this would’ve genuinely been incredibly refreshing.
My mother is a diagnosed sociopath. People are always surprised when they find out because she’s so good at masking. Curiously, being raised by a sociopath resulted in me being the complete opposite. I feel everything all the time and being around other people is hard because I’m reading their emotions and reactions and feeling what they feel. It really caused issues when I was a teenager in my relationship with her because we were just never on the same wavelength. But we have a great relationship now.
I never ever left a comment on any YouTube video and I just feel like I have to write one here. This is the most fascinating, honest, important and informative I have ever seen. Thank you so much for this video!❤
I'm under the impression many people are going to be confused between sociopaths and narcissists. The main difference is that narcissists DO feel shame, and it's their WHOLE problem. They feel shame but can't process it. Their whole fake identity they create is a way to get rid of shame. Sociopaths would never construct a false self for themselves, only for others.
33:08 This is a platinum parenting  insight: "I find that, in parenting, so much of a kid is having to navigate their parents' response to something. As opposed to being able to process and deal with their (own) reaction to what happened." Thank you for your honesty and willingness to be open to share your experience and find how it can positively impact others and help others give and feel understanding.
I met a girl in 100lvl of uni who told me that she was diagnosed as a sociopath too and Dr. Patric’s line in 12:00 reminds me so much of how my uni friend spoke too… she didn’t phrase going to jail as a bad thing because it’s a punishment for wrong doing. But because “… there are other things that she wants to do”… That’s  one of the things that stood out to me the most about her. Her reasons for ‘masking’ always stemmed from a different place than I’d’ve expected. Whenever we spoke about her mental processes and she gave vastly different reasons than I’d’ve expected for even the most mundane of behaviors… this is a very fascinating video… thanks for this video and thanks Dr. Patric for giving us much needed insight…
My classmate and neighbor looked like a copy of Ms Gagne. The same eyes, cheeks, lips, smile , voice, even the bite and the manner of closing her eyes when speaking. (I read somewhere that this is not unusual for them). She lied all the time and about everything , regularly stole candies in grocery stores, and bragged about it. Her parents were highly respected, successful professionals and kind people , her younger brother was an angel, so we were never able to figured why she was so different from them. She was witty and charismatic, but it was impossible to have any close relationship with her: she betrayed ,lied about other people and had no remorse about  it. She was very energetic , but she used her energy in a destructive way.  She married a very kind and emphatic guy, only because he adored her , had a child and started drinking ( not unusual for them) . Eventually her husband left her. Her son stopped communicating with her. She died from cirrhosis at 54, alone in her apartment.
My mom is a diagnosed sociopath. I didn’t find out until I was an adult but it caused trouble in our relationship unfortunately. This video helped me to understand her much better, thank you. ❤️
I love when someone speaks so honestly about themselves and their situation. It’s so enlightening and so productive.
Lots of people are confusing being asocial (wanting to be alone) and anti-social. This is what antisocial means.
The most clear and accurate explanation of this condition. I felt especially relieved when she talked about how people are self diagnosing and have taken clinical terms as typical human behavior. Anxiety is not being nervous. Depression is far beyond sadness. Neurodivergence is not being quirky or unique. Social media has made people want to use these real diagnoses as excuses for behavior. Psychological disorders are far beyond mental challenges. It is an entire physical and mental situation. I am neurodivergent with many health conditions and all three of my children are as well. The truth needs to be revealed about the complexity of our lives. I have been searching for a neurodivergent therapist. To live it is to know it. Plain and simple. This was a brilliant interview.
My father has sociopathic tendencies. I really struggled to connect with and understand him as a kid, still do. I think if we were able to have a conversation about his life experience, he would say some very similar things to this person. He is obviously an entirely different person, but I found this insightful in my journey to accept him.
I think there are more sociopaths than we realize. And many people don’t realize they may be a sociopath.
Really fascinating account. I was diagnosed with schizoid personality disorder about 11 years ago and although they're immensely different conditions, there's enough overlap that I can relate to a lot of what Patric is describing here. Not feeling and expressing emotions the same as most people do is really hard to articulate, its refreshing to hear someone do so plainly and to the point.
I'm glad to hear this from someone who has it, on their own terms, in a way that doesn't demonize sociopathy. It's no different than having ADHD or autism- it's a different way for a brain to be wired, and that's not inherently dangerous or bad- it just is.
I kinda expected you to say "He's a Fortune 500 CEO now" at the end there.
Had a childhood friend who was hard to read and sneaky.  When I Googled him after having no contact for fifty years, found out that he went to prison for a financial Ponzi scheme! (not really shocked)
This comment goes to Patric's point about neurotypicals making things about their emotional response.
​@aw04tn58  I'm not NT but that's still pretty messed up even without the emotion. You kinda don't harm your friends like that 🤷🏿‍♀️
​@aw04tn58  I am neurodivergent and still think someone trying to stab you in the eye for such a small reason is messed up and scary. Especially at such a young age, I can only imagine what the guy is like today if he never got his mental issues treated.
​ @aw04tn58  except it was the "person with something off" that had the illogical emotional response
when i was seven, I invited a friend to play yugioh cards so we could duel each other. He stole my red eyes black dragon. Never saw him again after that.
I bet he sells his insurance saying "it would be really sad if ... Something happens to little fluffy.... Or the house." Then sends hit men for the cat /house.
​@Squirreltasticqueen  intuition is real though. Everything isn't just either logical or illogical. He had an intuitive reaction and he was right in the end, most children wouldn't stab their friend in the eye in any circumstances.
Lol.... my sister is a sociopath... and is also an Insurance person
Yes because he was a young child. I absolutely can’t stand when adults have the same expectations for children as they do for fully formed brains in their 20s and beyond.
Yikes. That seems about right!  Most successful people, especially sales people know how to read people and lack empathy, but can mimic emotion and be charming to get what they want.  It's still pretty scary to me.
@ On paper, he's done pretty well.  He sold insurance in Kodiak AK for about 30 years before being promoted and moving up to Anchorage AK.  He was married to a lovely (by appearance) woman for 15 years, divorced, then remarried shortly after and divorced again soon after that, then remarried again less than two years later. Still with the same woman, who had two kids from a previous marriage. Strangely enough - no kids of his own, but maybe that's a medical thing.  I haven't gone beyond the surface in looking into it, but apparently, no criminal record to his credit, which surprises me.  (Asking around a small town still beats Google, in some parts of the world.)
​ @hawkfandan And when I was 8 someone made fun of my haircut. Not everyone's a sociopath so not sure how someone stealing a Yugioh card is relevant.
 @bink  Only someone without guilt, shame, or remorse is capable of stealing another man's red eyes black dragon.
 @hawkfandan  Fair enough, it's not like I'm ensconced in the culture or anything.
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
@KendraAndTheLaw  tell that to all the people getting denied for lifesaving treatments by their insurance co's
My parents made me play with a girl my age. She was my only friend but every time we’d play for a few hours, she’d suddenly…..become strange.  As in the vibe shifted and her smile felt empty. She then tried to drown me in the pool. She did this multiple times because at the time I got used to simply overpowering her. One time she choked me but her nanny saved me. But….one day she lured me into the basement and then proceeded to chase me with an axe.   I ran away and tried to go for the main door but she had deliberately locked that one from the inside. I then ran up screaming and cursing until I ran into her mom. She dropped the axe and started crying and I yelled at the mom saying that I’d call the police.   The mom was mad. But not at the girl, at me! She then forced me to apologize to her daughter for making her cry and wouldn’t allow me to leave her house until I promised to stay friends with her.   Honestly I don’t think she’s a sociopath, I think she’s psychopathic but truly I can’t speak as I don’t know. Her home life was great. She was rich and always got attention and gifts. She was spoiled.
 @aw04tn58 Their emotional response? Kid almost got blinded, that’s a tad more physical than emotional
@jamesrian1578Based on what the lady in the video says it sounds like at some point the pressure became too much and she acted out. Instead of reprimand her and get help the mom just let her keep abusing you.
this is the issue that i have with this video, since it's narrated from the psycopath's point of view, she doesn't realize that her actions where bad and hurted people. I wouldn't find conforting knowing that someone was at my house even if they didn't took or harm anybody. I don't think it's good as a society to normalize people being monster, those learned emotions exist for a reason after all, maybe we should treat them
When my older sibling's kid was 4, and I was told to look after them for a short time in the backyard when I was 12, they were about to do something dangerous (I don't remember now what it was), so I had to tell them not to do it, and the child turned around and bit me, through two layers of clothing, drawing blood, leaving a scar.  When they were a young adult, they were hateful and abusive, so I went No Contact.  They showed no remorse or regret over their abuses.  Not surprisingly, they destroyed their marriage, and it's good that they didn't have kids.
 @LDJ-r8e   *from, protected *from these people.  You wrote "protected by these people."
 @cacatr4495  Sad that people turn out that way.  An entire lifetime, loveless, angry, bitter, toxic. Too emotionally weak and defensive to ever see the light.
​@aw04tn58  yeah, how selfish of us "typicals" to have feelings about being assaulted.  😂  Get help.
"I'm not psychopath, I'm high funtioning sociopath." (Sherlock BBC) Yeah, those people are capable of things like sales without a guilt better than we are a lot of times.
Hardly close to sociopathy... the kid clearly had some complex feelings about an absent (workibg on boats) dad and you involuntarily made it worse by telling him that his dad isn't even there on that boat.  Complete overreaction from him, but hardly the work of someone who doesn't have learned emotions
Scary...   Just keep them away from me. I guess if i were a sociopath i wouldnt be afraid.
Omg!! That's kind of funny. I guess I am the only person that would clutch my pearls and run in the opposite direction
I completely see where there are perks to being a sociopath. I wish I didn't feel as much and I don't agree that everyone has some kind of darkness and I certainly don't agree that everyone has a little bit of sociopathy and that's an odd odd thing to decide other people have, especially when you're someone who actually can't feel things. Anyway, I like this lady and she's probably an excellent therapist. But to say, everyone's a little bit of a sociopath or everyone's got such darkness or that people are all interested and want to lean in is I guess general generalizations that I completely don't relate to
 @LDJ-r8e  well fortunately you have to wait for them to commit a crime before you separate them from society.. you can’t just find out they’re a sociopath, and without them, committed any crimes separate them from society.
 @aw04tn58  No. her assertion is that neurotypicals have an emotional response, unlike sociopaths and psychopaths.  An emotionally mature or complete person doesn’t make or expect everything to hinge on their emotions.
Maybe you were disagreeing with him too often. This can be experienced by the other as obstructive, leaving them feeling extremely frustrated.
Maybe he didn't have brothers or sisters to play with and his dad didn't play with him. Playing is where you learn a lot of boundaries, like if you slap your sibling and then they slap you back, and say don't do that again. He probably had someone give him a whooping, or got disiplined as he grew up, and learned better boundaries.
 @Garden366 Sociopaths and psychopaths do have emotional responses. What they don’t have is the ability to care about other people’s emotions. They are not somehow more “intellectual” than other people. They are just unable to factor in emotions in the same way. It is also important to note that they are not more logical. She is literally describing how she attacked a little girl to make herself feel better and got an euphoric rush from it. That doesn’t seem like someone in control of their emotions, quite the opposite.
I think sociopaths continue to exist in the population for a reason. They might not always be a perfect fit but like any human they have unique qualities they could bring to the table. What if being sociopathic is beneficial in certain jobs when emotions can be overwhelming?
 @anonymousstacker2044  Not sure why you are responding to me, but yes what you say seems obvious.
 @urieaaron I think it was because you mentioned that person was a funeral director, which could definitely be a draining job emotionally speaking. A sociopath could feasibly perform it without suffering from emotional wear-and-tear, while also being able to mimic empathy well enough to, for example, help console a grieving family member of the deceased.
My ex is a funeral director and he is like that. I'd say he's more of a narcissist though. Either way he mastered the art of being a chameleon (he even had the wonky eyes, too)
Don't forget that sociopaths are toxic, pathological liars, manipulative and charming. Even though in the video she made her sociopathy seem mild, but she's called a sociopath for a reason. Be careful.  This one is smart.
Ive always wondered why there are people like this (sociopaths/psychopaths). It’s too common for me to think it’s just a mistake (and besides I don’t think nature made any inherent mistakes) but I can’t seem to see what the evolutionary/survival benefit would be to having a psycho or two in your tribe? Seeing they have no empathy for others at all and everything is self centred at best and outright destructive at worst- what’s the point? life wasn’t challenging enough already? 😂 in nature we’d all have to rely on the others in the tribe to survive, the teamwork, good interpersonal relationships, strong emotional bonds, etc. it all seems to not make any sense from my pov. Obviously now we’re at a point where people are completely disposable and surprise surprise the psychos thrive.
Did you know him really well? Many doctors and nurses put up a wall in order to do their jobs.  Maybe he had to put up the same wall while at work or he has compartmentalized his life.  I worked at The Disney Store some years ago and I just acted the bubbliness they require for working there. That wasn’t me but I needed it for the job and I wanted to work there. I was part time for 3 years. The store manager hated kids but she was a good manager. All this to say, you can’t know anyone’s truth unless you ask them.
@I’m not sure you’d find an answer in the survival-through-social-value frame here, if that helps alleviate some of your confusion. The success (and even their air of danger) that many functioning sociopaths are able to achieve through a combination of their traits can make them very attractive to lots of non-sociopaths. One reality of humanity is that neurotypical does not mean rational. Neurotypical can include a lot of commonly-held emotionally-rooted biases, distortions and delusions, that work for us because they are commonly-held/accepted.
 @SergeantSucrose  because going straight from A to C in the decision making process provides a survival advantage over those of us who go through B…  …the most famous ‘psychopathology’ scene in movie screenwriting (that answers your question) is Man of Steel, in the iHop.  The most famous ‘psychopathology’ scene in movie screenwriting that explains why ‘psychopaths’ (ie not sociopaths, as she wants to be perceived), are ‘losers’, is Batman Begins, Bruce spares the thief.  Batman is a sociopath, and with training doesn’t “struggle” (as someone sees it), thus making him ‘stronger’ than an entire league of ‘parasitic shadows’.  Art, it isn’t brilliant, but ‘emotionally gifted artists’ lit ‘arian’, are.  Without a dubious ‘why’, you can have feelings of wonder, curiosity: fascination…  …otherwise you deserve your MT ‘Y’.  This video, and several comments, have me poetically envisioning a ‘VOMITUS REX’ response to people with ASPD, specifically their ‘unfunny character’…  …”I can do things other people can’t: and I’m (errantly) proud of myself for it”  We’ll see if this comment/Pearl ends up ‘losing’ in an unquestioned competition with the charming & articulate ‘ones’.  Inside-out, not outside-in.
He was tutored well, many aren't. A majority of psychopaths never become criminals either with a family that instructs and shows boundaries without being abusive.
 @JustEndah  Aren't you ever tired of thinking everyone with a certain trait is obviously evil and out to get you? I'd be.
 @Jhud69  definitelynot. I live a happy peaceful life. It's just I learned the psychology of it and read DSM5. It is what it is. The interesting part is people who attacked me on comment section are usually some of them. They hate being called out for who they are inside.
 @SergeantSucrose I think it stems from ego, as human beings we have a spiritual element and an element of self that makes us different from other animals. And these personality types are as old as time, there have always been people who have been maladaptive due to ego issues and self perception. That’s just my two cents, though.
He didn't know most of the people personally so why would he care? He was providing a service and it sounds like was good at it. This is why people get upset when we find out that actors like Sarah J Parker and Kim Cattrall weren't BFF's in real life get all afflutter for no reason. They were actresses doing a job. You don't have to like your co-workers. I'm sure he felt the same. He was doing a job.
 @JustEndah  But she's not charming at all. Funny thing, the first two seconds I saw her I thought to myself "YOU are going to tell my about sociopathy? You look like a freaking psycho yourself, lady!" and then she gpes "and I'm a diagnosed sociopath"... Then she goes on to say she's masking now and if she weren't, she'd come across as less friendly hahaha and I'm like "lady, your masking is not working, you're not coming across as anything other than antisocial personality".
@SergeantSucrose That's a really interesting scientific question you raise. Keeping in mind that not all variation within a large population is necessarily positively adaptive (ie some persists evolutionarily because it is just part of statistical distribution along a particular spectrum within our species, not necessarily because it provides a specific benefit?)  I do note that there's been some interesting research indicating that sociopathic, psychopathic & narcissistic personality traits may be far more common amongst big-firm C-suite personnel than amongst their employees. There's obviously a huge amount of nuance that needs further exploration, but one could speculate that perhaps there may have been some environments within human history where being less empathetic has proved valuable for specific individuals, at least? And because the positions they achieved have been ones of power/influence/high resources, that has contributed significantly to its genetic persistence as a trait?  NB: I can't speak to net benefit/loss to society as a whole arising from such leadership, sorry, definitely don't have the knowledge for that! But it's an intriguing question nonetheless.
@MeRioSola I am happy for you. Not everyone has this ability to see people's true self. I'm concerned about people who can be duped easily by narcissists, sociopaths and psychopaths.
They're just trying to have a conversation, or a dialogue. They are agreeing with you. I wonder if you lack social cues too
 @anna_in_aotearoa3166  speculatively, is the ever increasing gulf between CEO salaries and employees not detrimental to society and a symptom of these traits succeeding/being sought after in leadership? Maybe not. Maybe it’s plain old envy and avarice? I don’t know either. Thought-provoking comment though 👍🏻
Funeral director... probably a pretty convenient position for a sociopath to hold.
@majorpwner241  you watched this whole video and took nothing from it lol
@ It's a joke, and no, I didn't watch the whole video.
I think a lot of them are. I've know some that have a great deal of empathy as well.
@MeRioSola How does she look like a psycho? I too have a flat effect from depression/anxiety, but I have a ton of empathy. I just don't always show it.
A lot of surgeons, doctors and other "prestige/power" type careers attract sociopaths.  They are often very good at their jobs.  Not because they care about helping people but because they crave recognition and respect.  They enjoy having power over others.  Some sociopaths can't achieve becoming a doctor or lawyer, etc and instead become some type of supervisor/manager and they use this little bit of power to affect others and control them.
I'm an undertaker too! I honestly think it's the perfect job for sociopaths.  I have too much empathy, and it affects my performance a lot. I'm not a good undertaker at all.  A few months ago I had to drive a family to the crematorium in a limousine. The deceased was only 38 and died by suicide, and sat behind me was his wife and daughter (who was about 6) sobbing in eachother's arms. It was the saddest funeral I've ever had to do. Trying to remain professional and not cry with them was so difficult.   A lot of the time I try to suppress the feelings with humour. Sometimes I tell my friends/family about something horrific I saw at work and I usually end it with a dark joke. They're always mortified but it's the only way I cope.
 @crusty3731  But you are a good person, so there is that.
I'm recently self diagnosed on the spectrum realizing former "friends" probably thought I was a sociopath based on the meltdowns they witnessed. It wasn't even a thought that a woman could be on the spectrum
As an autistic person, I understand why, it is because it's unpredictable. As humans, we like to be able to read people for security reasons and not being able to is scary and unpredictable.
 @Lulu-mj2fi  Totally! I understand from an evolutionary perspective. Unfamiliar = not part of the tribe = "unsafe" Is it wrong to wish not that I was NT but that everyone was ND? 🤷🏼‍♀️😆
 @slimsonite2111  well idk, what would that accomplish, I think you'd be frustrated that way too😅 NT have their own set of issues too, I appreciate being ND and being with fellow ND's💞 And loving, patient, understanding NTs too but in moderation so we don't overwhelm eachother 💞
@slimsonite2111 lol well tbh sometimes the people we think are NTs actually aren't... they have severe mental illnesses too but just ACT like they are NT as we have seen. And just like in the ND community, there are nasty NTs too just because of a lack of understanding, fear (due to horrific experiences etc), or some are just nasty because they don't care or have the time or mental and emotional capacity to I guess but I find that the more I tapped into my good traits and rejected bad people without fear, loving NTs and NDs were drawn to me especially when I was honest about my struggles so they understood me and could develop empathy. But even still, we are all imperfect and lack understanding and can be accidentally hurtful so practicing empathy, patience etc is important for all of us. I hope you find your tribe xoxo when I finally found mine, it was like night and day and I don't take it for granted realizing how tough it can be. One or two close friends is enough and a few friendly acquaintances is helpful
 @slimsonite2111  sorry for the typos and oversharing lol but I care about you because I know how rough it is. Big virtual hugs and genuine well wishes to you💞
Yeah, it's interesting what we have in common. We're both masking, we're just masking different things. I feel all the emotions neurotypical people do, but expressing them is a learned behavior, because my natural responses would either be flat and hard to read or somehow inappropriate. You can't change what's inside, but you can work on what comes out. So I can, ironically, empathize with this.
I'm actually thinking there is no neurotypical. Everybody has something unique going on. I wonder sometimes if neurotypical is just another way of saying conservative, compliant, and excellent at masking. I think, as a society,  we need to re-evaluate "normality'. Everybody seems to agree on the surface that "there is no normal" but we still have these conventions where we perceive someone is "not normal". I think most of it comes down to judgement and the self projection it causes. And also that most people are just not  good at listening and thinking outside their own box. I know I had to learn to look at people in conversations as a kid. I just couldn't concentrate on the conversation if I looked at them and it took a long time to learn. I became practiced at holding my focus on their face while they're talking, but still look around when I'm speaking to them. But I'm a good listener.  I'm still very good at picking up audio cues in conversations. Very good.  I know my ability to have empathy comes mostly from personal experience. I'm very good at finding something in my past that had the same dynamics as whatever the other person is going through and I use that memory to respond, even when I don't feel it. So I'm still viewing from my own box, but I do care and don't like to see suffering. But when it comes to animals or small children I experience empathy emotionally, very strongly and mostly reactively. It's kind of weird. I also used to work in intellectual disability services and everyone agreed I had a real  knack for it. I had no idea I was on the spectrum at the time, but something in me must have known I had found "my people" LOL. But back to judgement and projection. I have learned that being "not neurotypical" is hard socially. Really bloody hard. Especially when you lived 41 years having various diagnoses for things you never ticked over half the boxes for (I'm now 57 and have had time to explore autism from a personal perspective a bit). So I am hyper-aware of people having their quirks and that they may be on the spectrum, and at least attempt to hold off judgement until I work them out a bit, regardless of their neuro-status. (I have also discovered I find people on the spectrum more likable ☺☺).   There are leaps and bounds happening in societal awareness (at least in the Western traditional social context) of just how unique people are and how it's mostly ok. We don't insist on rigid conformity in the way we did when I was growing up. Our amygdala wants to identify friend or foe and do risk assessment very quickly, but I think, thanks to enormous amounts of info on how prevalent "not neurotypical" is, we are evolving to a point where the rational mind can compete much more fairly with the amygdala. The flip side, the yin and yang, of the narcissistic trends apparent on much of the internet, is that people are becoming more self aware, which  then facilitates a deeper awareness of what others are going through mentally and emotionally. And THAT is something I am very grateful for and try to learn from as much as I can. There might be a time when we can just let people express themselves naturally (as long as there is not harm being done) and not project our own limited perspectives onto them prematurely. That'll be nice I think.
If it's important, I was diagnosed with ASD a year ago, and I wouldn't say that this woman looks like the right specialist for me. I just don't understand how she gets away with it, she doesn't sound convincing.  Speaking about the teacher's satisfaction with the child's work and the circumstances of getting the car key: this woman has logic, but it seems to be very short. For example, she doesn't understand that your grades will depend on whether the teacher is happy with you or not, parental approval and admission will depend on grades, and so on. That the reaction of people's emotions is important not for its own sake, but for the sake of the consequences that life in society and communication and sanctions for compliance bring.  It's the same with cars, it's not enough to say that you were given the keys. You need to figure out why you were given them. For example, "I got the keys from my friend Alex, he entrusted me with the car for a while so that I could ride and relax, because it helps me relieve tension after an argument with my girlfriend. Alex and I are good friends. he trusts me, and we haven't discussed it in the chat, and we don't have any other contract document, because we're as close as a family. I can call him and he will confirm" — you take the phone, change the contact of the liar friend to "Alex", call him. Alex, hi, I'm still riding in your car. Is this normal? Yes, it is. Confirm this to the police. Thank you.  Voila. Convincing cause-and-effect relationships.  I don't care if she's a sociopath, but her inability to understand the lingering effects of communication makes me wonder how anyone could possibly believe her lies. Many seven-year-olds don't know why they need to get good grades, and that's okay. Just tell them that you will give them frightening, painful, or harmful negative sanctions for not meeting expectations. Do not believe in the honesty of children, they are not your friends, they are only concerned about their well-being, and it always depends on how adults treat the child.  Therefore, I have little idea how she got her education and realized herself in society. Are all of you satisfied with the extremely inconclusive and short explanations she provides?
Wasnt it the other way around regarding empathy? Werent autistic people better at cognititive empathy than emotional?
Wasnt it the other way around regarding empathy? Werent autistic people better at cognititive empathy than emotional?
 @АнастасияВасильева-з3ш  I'm not satisfied. I am not a professional yet have been unfortunate enough to have had close enough  relationships with more than one sociopath. Some of what she was saying about sociopathy sounded more like psychopathy to me.  Maybe it's just personal experience and therefore bias, but I find it hard to believe a sociopath could come from the "perfect" home she described.
"But as an autistic person, I REALLY AM just asking when you're planning to start on dinner, not insinuating that you should do it NOW or that you're not doing enough around the house or that your schedule should be on my terms 😅 I'm literally just asking for an estimated time so I can figure out whether to eat a snack or not."  I can relate for sure!
I think I'm realized something while watching this. As an autistic person, one way I'm similar to a sociopath is that I often don't care about social expectations, but I think I learned that as a way to cope with the fact that, at least as a child, I simply was not going to be accepted by my peers. As a "weirdo", I simply was unable to meet their expectations, and often I didn't even understand what the expectations were. Also, when I knew what they were, I often didn't understand why - it's hard to care about expectations that seem stupid (which is how I often judged those expectations then). Conversely, because older people were often more accepting, I did care more about their social expectations. My Dad could simply say he was disappointed in me (something he didn't often say, and only if I tangibly did something wrong) and I would be devastated with guilt and shame.
@angelofdusk13 I am autistic, and WOW everything you said rings so true for me! You described my experience exactly, as only another fellow autistic can!  Thank you. ❤
Thank you. That’s really informative, helpful, and very eloquent. Thank you for taking the time to share.
yes!! and on that latter part, omg, i'm so tired of people thinking i'm putting pressure on them or something when i'm just asking to know times! and on that, when i ask when we'll be back, again, i just want to know times, it's not a "we haven't left and you already want to get out", i need to know schedules!
 @slimsonite2111  I suspect that's the exact same wish they've got. XD (Meaning "I wish everybody was like me" is universal, whatever "I" am like.) ...I do it too, FWIW. Life would be pretty boring if everybody was like me, though, so I resign myself to some interactions being a biiiit too interesting and deal. 😓
It's really weird because I was recently diagnosed with autism (the whole process started quite late, at 32 years old), and I don't feel like I'm masking like so many other people on the spectrum describe.  I would say that I am over sensitive when it comes to emotions.  I do find I have to look away sometimes, as eye contact might make me a little uncomfortable. I struggle to create or maintain relationships and I don't know how to develop interests or hobbies.  I can't handle pressure. Which has restricted me to a basic supermarket job, meaning I cannot afford to move out of my dad's apartment. Which for me, is deeply shameful.
Are y'all about to communicate with each other effortlessly? Like, do y'all require "listening face" too?
i have begun to clarify when asking questions like this with pretty much everyone around me. if i ask "is there a plan for dinner tonight?" because i want to know if i need to make my own dinner, they assume i am hungry and expect them to make dinner. in reality i would often prefer them to say "no there's no plan." but they feel pressured to come up with a plan for dinner and make it themselves. it has the opposite effect of what i intend, and i realized that the phrasing as well as the timing are pretty important to achieving a desired outcome.   instead, asking early in the day what the plan for dinner is eliminates the assumption that i want to eat dinner right now. or, asking something like "im thinking about making (meal) for dinner tonight, does that sound good?" gives them opportunity to bring up what their dinner plan was, if they had one, and also doesnt pressure them into thinking i want them to make me food.  there's just a lot of mental chess around discussing things with people that i dont think people appreciate when they have been doing it automatically their whole lives. my default when asking a question isnt to change the question to prevent them from assuming things, so if i dont have a pre-planned phrase like with dinner, its usually best to over-explain my question and leave nothing up to them to assume or misinterpret. which is apparently not the normal approach for neurotypicals.
As a person who is also on the spectrum, I completely agree. I am constantly thinking that others are mad at me and the “smallest” inconveniences feel like my world is crashing down. I also make efforts to manipulate my facial expressions when someone is telling me something important or serious because I don’t want them to think that I’m not listening because in my mind, that would upset them and I don’t want to make people upset. From what I’ve learned in this video, it seems that  I lie at the very opposite end of the psychopathy spectrum.
Damn, I'm undiagnosed (suspect ASD and ADD) but this really hit home. I just realized what an amazing amount of energy I spend each day on emoting in social interactions so that people won't think I'm not listening, disagree, analyzing them, etc. If I didn't, then I'd probably mostly just stare at people because I'd focus on listening, or I'd look away like you say to focus better (and yes, faces are veeery expressive, distracting and confusing to me). And also like you say, I feel many things intensely, but it rarely seems to correlate with the emotions of others (like we're on different wave lengths somehow).
 @rowdyriemer  Lol, very recognizeable. This constant misreading from others (or at least my awareness that things COULD be misinterpreted) has made this one of my OCD's favorite subjects for screwing with my head. This leads to me trying to be super clear about not having any underlying message in what I say, which ironically then leads to me feeling guilty like I did mean something else and start to act like I'm hiding something..
 @brah04X  It's SO exhausting! If I go to a social event, I usually need an entire day to myself afterwards to decompress and recover. I tell the people in my inner circle, "It's not that I don't love you--I just need a lot of time to myself." 😅
 @slimsonite2111  "On the spectrum" is ableist. It's saying "I'm autistic, but I'm not that autistic." It's a way to sidle up to abusive NTs. It's ok to just own it and be autistic. You are not alone.
 @drewcoowoohoo what? Could you elaborate? Bc on the spectrum means on the spectrum of autism and it definitely is an important distinction to make for most people
​ @chaoyilliu  "On the spectrum" means "I have autism but it's not like I'm Rain Man." It's a way of diminishing your own autism. I don't know how to elaborate more. Google for "on the spectrum ableist" to find other voices saying the same thing.
 @Lulu-mj2fi  Remember that it is estimated that over 50% of NDs are undiagnosed, and have no clue they are ND. Without that diagnosis, just like the lady in the video was saying, they have no understanding of who or why they are the way they are, and they just think they are broken and wrong. This can cause a lot of pain for both them and the people they are trying to interact with. You are approaching life as an autistic brain type in a great way, and you are right that once you start to focus on the benefits of your traits, you then attract others who are also focusing on what is right about them.
 @RiverWoods111  so very true💓 It is also why if someone is being gossiped about for being "weird", I immediately find something positive to say about them and remind others to have empathy because you NEVER know what someone is going through. I try to have have empathy for gossips too because I know it is a learned behavior and they think they are protecting themselves which is understandable but I don't go out of my way to associate with people who continously go out of their way to be nasty even when people are trying to work with them and show them empathy for their nasty behavior NT or ND. Sorry, maybe that sounded off topic lol but basic I am saying is, yes! We never know💞 I try to be empathetic to all and also at the same time protect my safe space and boundaries and do the same for others. I hope I made sense lol. Sometimes, like many of us, I struggle to articulate when I'm tired but I knew if I didn't respond now I'd probably forget. In any event, thank you for you encouraging comment! I wish you all the best xox.
 @sallybalkin8507  There is a difference in the way Neurotypicals process information and the way Neurodivergent processes information. NT's frontal lobe functions better so the NT has an executive function which is why they can do stuff easier and not get overwhelmed. Their brain is thinking multiple thought processes at the same time where as the ND's brain is Monotropic. Hence the hyperfocus of the ND brain. Even with ADHD although their brains may jump from one thing to the next it is only thinking one thing at a time. Which is what makes them seem so scattered and chaotic (I am AuDHD, so both autistic/ADHD). The reason NDs struggle to learn in the school systems we have now is that we process information in the opposite direction from the NTs. Because NTs have so many thought processes running at the same time, they only burn shallow neuropathways causing them to not remember information for very long.  Because NDs have hyperfocus we store information long term to permanently. It may take NDs slightly longer to process the new information, but we keep it longer.   My point is that there is a brain type called neurotypical and a brain type called Neurodivergent (the overlap in the different neurodivergent brains tells me it is probably one type with different presentations. Our ND brain type is just as normal as the NT brain type even though we are a much smaller section of society. Within both brain types, each person is an individual. NTs have their own struggles, but they deal with them often more easily because they have natural support systems. Society is not set up to support NDs, because we are the minority and the NT society prefers to label us as broken. That is changing slowly though.
As an autistic, you feel it, but sometimes fail to show it.  Sociopaths are the opposite.
 @angelofdusk13  Same same :) I feel like just being able to explain it is a big win. I still have many patterns and reactions that I struggle with explaining so that people understand what's going on.
This made me think a lot about where adhd masking differs! adhd affects me a lot emotionally with emotional dysregulation and RSD, it seems similar to autism adhd ppl also feel emotion very deeply, but the problem actually occurs with regulating expressing these emotions. As a kid experiencing AND expressing both happiness and sadness to extreme ends but slowly being told you’re “weird” and “too much” leads to trying to hide how strong our emotions are so we don’t come off as sensitive, or annoying, or dramatic. ADHD is having too much of everything and trying to dull it down for the neurotypicals. That difference is so interesting!
​ @drewcoowoohoo  so how do you qualify autism? i've seen people say things like "i'm low support needs" or "i'm high support needs," or say they're level i, ii, or iii. i promise i'm asking in good faith--i'm also autistic and while i interpret the phrase "on the spectrum" differently, i am curious to hear different perspectives in the community.
Whaaat.. I relate to this so much, especially with the part about conversations 🥹
Thank you, yes!! NTs are ridiculous with all those hidden agendas. I mean WHY do yo people do that to yourselves?? Why not just communicating clearly and directly? Seriously, when I discovered that someone is autistic I just wanna high five them and thank them for being normal 😂
​ @arcanealchemist3190 just reading your comment made me tired and irritated, I hate this in NTs so very much, so much nonsense all the effing  time to consider, so tiring
It's uncomfortable to admit it but I can relate. From a young age I've had psychology as an interest because it helped me understand other people and myself. Then I majored in psychology and realized that I might in fact be autistic, now I'm awaiting a diagnosis.   But I've met a lot of people that went into psychology for no particular reason, almost randomly or because it's what fitted their grades, I've noticed that some of them lack the passion though (in my opinion you need passion for this, especially if you become a therapist, like doctors and nurses).   I've also met people that got in it because they've seen suffering, or the wonders of the mind and just want to know more and help people. Like my professor in psychopathology, he is a psychiatrist and chose that path because as a teen he lost his best friend out of nowhere and it left him in a huge mental shock, that's what made him want to know more about the mind. I have another professor, in developmental psychology that got into it randomly and lacks purpose (in my opinion), the difference is obvious, they both know their subjects but their attitudes toward the Human are different, the second one is also less empathic and understanding, not much different from laymen (I've experienced it first hand bc I also have a sever stutter and he treated me badly because of it), so the normal ones can also be wicked. These are Just my experiences though.
Yes and no because there are people who pursue psych field because their family member/close person has a mental disorder while they dont have issues themselves
There's people in every profession that may have psychological issues, they are drawn to EVERY career there is. There's not more or less in any career. What an odd thing to say. Most people in the world want to help others and therefore they pick a career where they can help others in a way that suits their heart.
Agreed (to an extent), but I also have had the opposite side of this coin: the person who refuses to date or befriend psych folks is often the one with unusual psychology...and refuses to acknowledge it. They're often a person with high defenses and impressive skills of denial, with  the bonus tendency to externalize their problems onto everyone else. So when two people refuse to get together in those dynamics, the chances that at least one of them is mentally unhealthy are pretty high.
I agree,  I know i said "never" but it wasn't actually a hard and fast rule. Call it a proceed with caution rule.  There was actually another reason for the rule now that I think about it.  Psychologists study behavior, then they often try to categorize the behaviors into psychological disorders. I'm not saying they'll all badger you about what disorders they think you might have, but... would you want to deal with that if they did.  For the record, I know two people who married psychologists and they seem to be just fine. So my decades rule hasn't held up so far.
Reading comments that praise evil people is an inspiration too, you know. It prepares me to live with idiots.
My parter of 6 years is a psychologist and therapist, and he's had a decent life, good family, etc. He's a very empathetic and kind person. He got into psychology because he just wants to help people. However, he can attest mentions that lots of people in his profession (that he has worked with) just.... shouldn't be lol. A lot of them are selfish and rude to their patients.
I find her quite attractive, but then that worries me because I'm such a sentimental, sympathetic and empathetic softie
 @billhicks8 All she needs is a little love, go for it, bro 😂
You look like someone who was raised in Butte Idaho and lived in a town very similar to the one in Napoleon Dynamite. That is how I would describe you to a police sketch artist if you ever went missing during one of your hiking trips. Do you want to go hiking with me?
Remember:  she's lying (at times.  My father is a lawyer; I can pick up on some of the signals and traits) and manipulating the interview to her benefit.  Take what she's saying with a grain of salt.  A very informative, mostly frank interview.  Very impressive.  Like listening to a female Ted Bundy with mostly impulse control.
As a special educator who specializes in Autism spectrum, I agree.  I did not baby or caudel them. They were still expected to do the same work as the other students. But, the way the goal was accomplished may be altered depending on the individual child's likes and dislikes.  For example, in KG, I had a student who refused to do his coloring sheets with crayons. But he would color them with his pencil. I wondered why.🤔 So I started coloring with both a pencil and a crayon to figure out what's the difference?🤷🏼‍♀️  It was a texture thing.  It feels slightly different rubbing a pencil across a piece of paper than a crayon. 🤔 So I explained to his teacher and asked if instead of crayons, he could use colored pencils? The next day, I brought him colored pencils.  Problem solved. 👍  It wasn't that he was unable or unwilling to do the assignment. It was just a sensory issue with a simple solution. 😉
I used to nany for a kid with pathological demand avoidance autism, and let me tell you, I’ve never seen a kid more capable be held back so badly because of social norms of how and what he should be learning and using to learn. I think she also would be a great fit for him. No beating around the bush and no unnecessary belittling
And as someone autistic I disagree and do not want sociopaths for doctors. Sociopaths often look for autistic people to torture and I have been bullied by many and sexually abused by a female doctor who felt very similar to her. They often really hate our naivety and trusting nature and innocence and go out of their way to mentally and physically torture us.
 @RioRav  I think this is a very interesting and valid counterpoint. I'm autistic, and a therapist, and through my own research I know that we are disproportionately targeted for abuse because we are more vulnerable in certain ways. We tend to stand out as different, which often isolates us, and those who are already isolated are generally easier to abuse. We also tend to have a harder time discerning the motives of the people around us, and so may be less likely to pick up on the red flags of dangerous or manipulative people. The risks of abuse goes ever upward the more evident it is to potential abusers that we may have difficulty communicating to others, because it means we're therefore less able to communicate about the abuse too.  By a strange and unfortunate coincidence, I can say I was also sexually abused by a female doctor at about 13. I won't speculate on why she was the way she was, but it just highlights the risks of being from a more vulnerable population with a health provider who may get some inherent thrill from destructive or antisocial behaviors. At the same time, I do believe sociopaths (and similarly maligned neurodivergent people) deserve help to live the most successful life they can, and coping skills to avoid harming others. I feel safer and more comfortable with higher empathy healthcare professionals as a patient or client, but at the same time I can understand and respect why some people would actually feel more comfortable working with someone like Dr. Gagne.
I was thinking the same thing, what a great therapist she must be!!  What I want from a therapist is to help me correct maladaptive behaviors, so i can assimilate and stop being self-destructive! The last thing I want is a pat on the back and a box of tissues, that is a waste of time. Too many therapists out there seem to think their job is about soothing feelings and building self esteem. I don’t want false self esteem, I don’t want to feel good about myself if Im acting like a turd. The self esteem will come naturally when I am doing things I can be proud of, and not creating problems fir myself and others
 @RioRav  i didn’t think if that aspect of things Yes some people without empathy are very dangerous for people that have trouble reading social cues and “vibes” for lack of a better word  I hate to use the word evil, but yes i think most evil people are socio or psychopaths  However I think not all sociopaths are evil, I think that was part of what she was saying. Unfortunately the potential for evil is certainly higher in those personality types!
Yes! This is what I was thinking and have been looking for in terms of a therapist. Nothing really gets accomplished because there is so much empathy going on. I just want a straight forward discussion.
I’m not sociopathic, I just feel things differently. Finding a therapist like this would be a dream come true. I have literally walked out on a therapist who teared up during my session because of the story I was recounting. I don’t want my therapist in the boat with me! I am there to get a perspective outside of my own.
I’m not sociopathic, I just feel things differently. Finding a therapist like this would be a dream come true. I have literally walked out on a therapist who teared up during my session because of the story I was recounting. I don’t want my therapist in the boat with me! I am there to get a perspective outside of my own.
Autism and sociopathy are two different disorders. Sociopathy is an anti-social disorder. Autism is a Neuropsychological disorder. People with autism do have empathy, but the theory of mind is often lacking. Theory of mind and empathy are often equated, incorrectly.
Her lack of affect and matter-a-fact candor are refreshing, honestly. I find myself liking her. I can fully understand why folks with some neurotypes would find her style reassuring and helpful.
​​ @RioRav  absolutely, I'm a hyper-empathetic autistic woman. Being an autistic woman is like having a target on your back. Abusive people can sense it when someone is open and trusting second guessing their social perception. I doubt I would be able to trust this woman as my doctor. Even though I enjoy her straightforwardness. I would definitely not be leaning in if she confided her diagnosis to me. I would be clutching my pearls behind a blank face, ask a few questions and then stay away from that person as best as I can.
@alllscination Just say "I do not have the skills to cope to people with ASPD" instead of making it sound ableist  Not everyone who has ASPD is abusive  "I'll avoid this person because they have a disorder" yeah sure buddy try introducing to people that you're autistic and be surprised when nobody talks to you  From another autistic, we should be supporting fellow neurodivergents instead of being suspicious of each other but I also understand that you're wary due to perpetuated stereotypes that have existed long before you did   But also BPD is in the same group of disorders as ASPD so are you gonna avoid BPD havers too?
@ I see your point AND I have seen kids labled Pathological demand avoidance autism, engage in behaviors that look and function similar to the described “engaging in small acts of deviance to help release the pressure”. I’m sorry that that is the experience that most autistic people have.
Just ignore them and find your passion subject, study it for all you can, be the authority on it. Wait for others to sit at your feet for your knowledge.
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
I’ve had trouble with therapists projecting their ways of relating to others on to me, and clearly assume I’m lying/engaging in impression management when I describe my own experience. A therapist who realises their own experience is not typical may be more likely to consider that I might be telling the truth.
⁠ @nicolekent-xj5um I sometimes wonder, since Sociopathy is a spectrum and there is a young woman online who has Autism and ASPD diagnosis, if in fact it’s not pathological demand avoidance, but maybe Autism and Sociopathy if they also struggle to understand guilt, shame, remorse, don’t have fear, and struggle to understand empathy?
@ oh god trust I’ve thought about it hard, but I no longer work with that family but hope them tje best’
 @sheilamailhes3329 Oh my god thank you. Trust me (I mean you already seem to know, but still) texture things aren’t just a preference. My texture thing is two-hands, palms together, rubbing together. It drives me nuts, I have to stim to deal with it and I cannot do anything. People don’t usually take the time to understand us autistic people, they just assume that we’re acting out on purpose and belittle and bully us, then say we’re just problems. When so often you just have to treat us with understanding and respect.
They can be dangerous to pretty much everyone. When someone is good at manipulation, it can catch anyone. It is more dangerous to those who are more vulnerable.
 @comradefrommars  So important and I wish people understood this. This woman is very charming... and that is part of the diagnostic criteria for psychopathy. My opinion is that she IS dangerous though she claims otherwise.
You do not want a sociopath for a doctor, let alone a therapist. You don't know what you're asking for here.
Honestly. As a sensitive person who can handle constructive criticism but not raised voices.I would absolutely have loved to have a mom like this.   Even just the idea of knowing that your mom loves you but cannot express it the same way that you do would have explained a lot of things as a child, Rather than thinking that there was something wrong with me.Because I did not want to hug everybody in my family Dx
 @RioRav I can also agree with this. I had an autistic friend who lived with a sociopathic mutual friend. While this arrangement yielded a lot of toxicity(this story is a rabbit hole) it’s not a patient-doctor privileged relationship. I would not want a sociopathic doctor even as a neurotypical person because of their tendencies to flaunt rules/laws and safety. I know they don’t have my best interests in mind…part of being a health provider is exhibiting empathy.
These people who say they'd like to have a sociopath as a therapist lol.. you're kidding me? You might think she'd give you 'helpful' advice, because she's so 'knowledgeable', but she certainly wouldn't give a damn about you. Let's stop glamorizing these people. They don't care about your emotions, or if they hurt and offend you. They behave in ways to serve themselves. I wouldn't trust a crocodile in my weakest hour.
 @sheilamailhes3329  bravo! people like you is what we need to help those with ASD. it's about trying to feel the world in the way they feel it.
I was thinking the exact same thing. I have moderate support needs autism and trying to get therapy has been a frustrating experience. Therapists have always made me feel like the way I experience emotions is "wrong." Instead of working me through the distress I was experiencing, they would cast aside my actual issues to focus on what they believed I was "suppressing" or "covering up," refusing to accept that I was able to cope in those areas better. I have a tendency to struggle with "simple" things, but logically analyze my way out of more complex pain. I have yet to find a single NT therapist whose willing to just accept that this is the way my brain works.
If it's important, I was diagnosed with ASD a year ago, and I wouldn't say that this woman looks like the right specialist for me. I just don't understand how she gets away with it, she doesn't sound convincing.  Speaking about the teacher's satisfaction with the child's work and the circumstances of getting the car key: this woman has logic, but it seems to be very short. For example, she doesn't understand that your grades will depend on whether the teacher is happy with you or not, parental approval and admission will depend on grades, and so on. That the reaction of people's emotions is important not for its own sake, but for the sake of the consequences that life in society and communication and sanctions for compliance bring.  It's the same with cars, it's not enough to say that you were given the keys. You need to figure out why you were given them. For example, "I got the keys from my friend Alex, he entrusted me with the car for a while so that I could ride and relax, because it helps me relieve tension after an argument with my girlfriend. Alex and I are good friends. he trusts me, and we haven't discussed it in the chat, and we don't have any other contract document, because we're as close as a family. I can call him and he will confirm" — you take the phone, change the contact of the liar friend to "Alex", call him. Alex, hi, I'm still riding in your car. Is this normal? Yes, it is. Confirm this to the police. Thank you.  Voila. Convincing cause-and-effect relationships.  I don't care if she's a sociopath, but her inability to understand the lingering effects of communication makes me wonder how anyone could possibly believe her lies. Many seven-year-olds don't know why they need to get good grades, and that's okay. Just tell them that you will give them frightening, painful, or harmful negative sanctions for not meeting expectations. Do not believe in the honesty of children, they are not your friends, they are only concerned about their well-being, and it always depends on how adults treat the child.  Therefore, I have little idea how she got her education and realized herself in society. Are all of you satisfied with the extremely inconclusive and short explanations she provides?
​ @pineapplegirl8078 i wonder, perhaps those teary therapists go into the profession with ulterior motives, e.g. they're using their patients to learn more about themselves. With such blind goal in mind, no wonder they stumble into things they're not cut out for.   Thank you.
​ @bjorn_jonsson theory of mind, I'd argue, is part of empathy. This is because without it, you can't identify and learn, on your own, how you might hurt others and change behaviour. Without theory of mind, you might accidentally or unintentionally hurt someone you're close to.   The pain of being hurt, intentionally or not, is the same.
@bluewilliams4911 I am also autistic, and when she talked about being a therapist I thought the same thing. I think I would appreciate having a therapist like her! I also hate that feeling of pity that I have felt on occasion from some therapists, because they empathized with me TOO MUCH. I have so much trauma and abuse in my history, and it's hard enough to talk about it, even more so when I can see the shock and sadness on the therapist's face. It makes me feel uncomfortable, like I have to take care of their feelings! But with someone like Patric, they could as you said be a blank slate and give me HELPFUL feedback and strategies. I don't want pity, I want HELP!
 @christinelamb1167 I understand what you're saying, but I find it scary that she's a therpist.  I would not be able to trust her... But that's just me.
I would love to talk to her about politics. I (probably autistic) find that I can see around the social manipulation  that forms the basis of most people's political beliefs. I thought this was a hyper-logical autistic thing,  but on the contrary I observe autistic people being especially susceptible to the manipulation. So I don't know what it is about me that creates this,  but like this lady,  I've been obsessed with studying human behavior,  and brainwashing, propaganda, and cult tactics are a special interest,  as well as having a practice of self-examination.
 @Lighthouse11245  why would she have to give a damn as long as she helps you.
I'd love to hear more about how the subjective and objective views of the world are different through a healthy sociopath lens.
I was also raised by one and turned out the complete opposite. Now as a grown adult I will have nothing to do with her. Glad you could get sense out of yours.
How can you have a relationship with someone that can't love you!? Truly curious 'cause normally kids of sociopaths go no contact
 @Piscoandmartinis  did you watch the video? sociopaths are not incapable of loving another person. they show and feel love differently.
 @maneater yeah I just don’t believe her at all. She’s pretends to be able to love to have a normal life. If you’re unable to feel guilt, then you can’t love.
 @louloutre why do you think love and guilty are associated? Genuinely asking; just curious about you perspective.
​ @maneater  next time you should learn from narcissism from narcissists. but what can i say, you guys deserve what you get with this high intellect.
​ @MilA-eh3gf  it is not his perspective, love is about loving unconditionally and that means recognising the other people's needs, not just your owns.
We need a lot more of these videos from real people so we can all learn from one another.  We've all been manipulated by people with a lot more money and power than this lady has.  A lot more dialogue needs to happen because it's not just normal people and Ted Bundy's out there.  We're all weird in our own ways.  👍
@bereal6590  They're not all narcissistic. NPD is a different diagnosis than ASPD
 @bereal6590  That is not true. ASPD and NPD are separate disorders, though they can co-occur. ASPD doesn't require narcissism.
​ @PRKLGaming  narcissistic is a trait that anyone outside of NPD can also have.
 @alexandrasimon7191  in the context of the discussion we were talking about NPD
@PRKLGaming  I'm saying what I believe to be true and if you read up on shared traits that's the way it appears to be. You can be narcissistic and that's all the way through from mild to a malignant narcissist with sociopathic traits but anyone qualifying for aspd would be default because narcissistic. The lack of regard for others, low/or complete lack of empathy (that would be affective empathy), entitlement aggrandisement etc.. Just because this woman is here giving her experience and not becoming a criminal doesn't change my opinion on that.
@ You're talking about traits, I made it clear I was talking about not just traits but NPD and ASPD. ASPD doesn't necessarily imply NPD.
 @PRKLGaming  I've no idea what you're talking about  all personality disorders are made up of traits that make them such. Just believe what you want to believe. I know what I am sure of
@bereal6590  yes made up of traits but having traits doesn't mean you have the disorder  It's like saying bread and flour are the same thing. There's a difference between traits and disorders...
@bereal6590  "believe what you want to believe" lol I believe in what thr DSM-5 says, it's not a matter of opinion like you're trying to make it to be
Don’t take it personal. Some people get it, and others keep their head in the sand. Some people are determined to see their side only.  Ive been there. I’ve dated many psychopath so I know the differences you are talking about. Another difference is the narc is “me, me, me” and the psychopath focuses on “you”, the narc is loud and attention seeking, always talking, while the psychopath just sits quietly in the background, watching the room. The narc is like a flamboyant talkative peacock gazing at it’s reflection and the psychopath is like a patient wolf or black widow spider waiting for a fly to sit on it’s web.
It's weirdly common for people with these to get into relationships with the other of the pair. A narcissist is extremely easy to play, and they enjoy getting played because it usually involves people feigning admiration for them. Sociopaths are really good at masking emotions so they're able to get their kicks easy from a narcissist. It's scary toxic and wildly common.
I think the more accurate term for your description is histrionicism. NPD goes more hand in hand with ASPD. The main difference between someone with HPD and NPD is that histrionic individuals do in fact feel guilt and shame especially if they realized that they had been socially rejected or embarrassed. Whereas individuals with NPD severely lack or possess no empathy. Much like sociopathy (ASPD). Only difference between narcissists and sociopaths is that narcissists tend to get excited about being the center of attention or being socially admired, but sociopaths are just completely anti-social, they really don't care what people think about them, just self-centered things that they can get from interacting with people (such as money or sex). Though, again, both don't feel empathy.
@tomodomo7675  I'm not sure I understand. You say the difference between NPD and HPD is that HPD individuals feel shame. Yet you're not saying people with NPD don't so you're not really disagreeing with what I'm saying?
This! My partner is such a gaslighter but it’s all attached to him not processing shame. Thank you
I feel like the word narcissist gets thrown around waaay to easily anyway 🙈 like one person gets caught in a lie or doing literally anything remotely selfish gets immediately diagnosed as a narcissist by all the "internet experts"😂
 @PRKLGaming  Forgive me if this shows up twice, but the first time I left this comment, it disappeared.  Borderline personality disorder is the one with debilitating shame.
 @hirsute-of-happiness  But narcissism isn't always a diagnosis either. There IS NPD, but there's also narcissism just as a personality style. For someone to have Narcissistic Personality Disorder they need to be uncomfortable with how it affects their life and feel the need to look for help and stop the behavior.  People who don't feel like anything is wrong with them, and to whom narcissism actually seems to be working, they're just narcissists, that's their personality style, not a disorder, it's an antagonistic personality style for sure, but not a disorder.  Narcissism is mainly characterized by lack of empathy/low empathy/selective empathy (can be "turned on" when necessary to get something, but is usually off), entitlement, superiority complex and, in it's core, insecurity.  That's what i heard from a specialist in narcissism.
@dandantsm6560 All of this is true. It's still untrue to say that all sociopaths are narcissists, which is what the commenter I was replying to originally commented.
@ColRubyDimplesManacha  I replied to you but it seemed it disappeared. I said both NPD and BPD are characterized by shame.
You still need to be careful, even people like this Dr, who are speaking frankly and still masking. They are inherently manipulative people and you cannot simply trust their word.
 @ДушманКакдела    She covered that point nicely, saying that if you don't trust her word, you can look up the ample research on the topic. One has to wonder where on the "neurotypical" spectrum your inherent distrust and judgmentalism fall.
Minor correction: it's 'Dr. Gagne', not 'Dr. Patric'. Her first name is Patric :).
As an autistic person, I kind of relate in the sense that I lack respect for unjustified authority. This may look different for different people, but we need more than the threat of social exclusion to feel motivated to do/not do something. For myself, I have an interest based nervous system. This doesn't mean I won't adhere to rules just because I disagree with them, but that I have real experience with rejection and exclusion that it is intertwined with my life in a way that it becomes an hollow threat.
 @ruthhenderson5413  My distrust and judgement come from having worked with a, and for another sociopath for eight years. The first five years were the worst of my life, at least until I learned how they operate. Didn't make it less bad, just more predictable.
​ @Sgt_Glory That sociopath and this lady aren't the same person. She is far more self aware and transparent than the average sociopath. And she is speaking for the benefit of people who have sociopathic family and friends etc.
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
I mean wouldnt you feel the same way about jail? If its a small crime that doesnt really harm anyone I wouldnt consider the problem to be that its "morally wrong". Id say well I do not want to end up in jail
 @LDJ-r8e  Well I'm certainly not sociopathic but seeing what you wrote I wouldn't want you anywhere near me or anyone I care about (unless they would choose otherwise as I would not want to impede their own choices). Such utter closemindedness and insistence that its healthy is exactly what is wrong with the world today (and disgusting).   I'm sorry, that may have come off a bit too strong. I understand that you feel that way, but struggle to understand as to why. Were you or a loved one hurt by someone with this disorder?
 @LDJ-r8e  I suspect it would be better if you didn't have children because you don't sound prepared for them to be in any way different to yourself.
​ @ruthhenderson5413 Not sure what you mean but I want to add that when she"you can look up the ample research" etc, her motives for being honest would be to have credibility and to keep her position. She understands the consequences of lying in this particular situation. If it was more to her benefit to lie about the research, then as a sociopath, she would probably choose to do that and get away with it, being that she is a sociopath. She doesn't care about the concept of trust, she cares about the consequences of not gaining the audience's trust because her goal is to keep her position and maybe even elevate it with this video.
 @amdonut8091  Sociopaths are still people you know. You can't talk about people in a way that suggests they lack any internality and expect me to respect your beliefs. If your beliefs exclude some people from personhood your beliefs are fundamentally wrong.
who doesnt feel bad when going to jail bc of wasting time? who is like „oh no the jailtime shows me how bad i was“ and feel like its the worst thing about it?
​ @LDJ-r8e  You're surrounded by them every single day. You wouldn't necessarily know.
The Body Keeps the Score  Yoga Dr Chris Palmer - Harvard Metabolic Psychiatry
Many of these labels are arbitrary and grossly misunderstood.  The Pathos understanding has only begun.
 @rott3ndollie  Update: My mom is a Narcissist Sociopath. When the latest Cruella /Disney/ live action Emma Thompson - Emma Stone came out I was stunned. “This is my life” I thought. I purchased the film on YouTube and watch it often. Everything makes do much sense now. I know it wasn’t my fault and I am victorious!!
I am an extremely sensitive and empathetic person (partially due to being on the autism spectrum) and my mom is the exact same way. It’s difficult for me to imagine having a mother with this disorder. I’d love to hear more about your upbringing
Does it feel like you're around an alien? I feel that way around some people. A soulless void.
How do you know she’s actually telling the truth. After all, she is a sociopath, remember.
Me too. Bc I want to know who I’m dealing with. This is all interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
i mean sociopaths are known for telling people what they want to hear so i’m taking everything she says with a grain of salt lmfao
 @aCleverFishingPun I’ll be frank: I trust her more than y’all lmao. Rude mfers
Don't forget that sociopaths are toxic, pathological liars, manipulative and charming. Even though she made her sociopathy seem mild, but she's called a sociopath for a reason. Be careful.  This one is smart.
"Honestly"? Bro, she's a sociopath, lol. You never know when this woman is lying or not. They're masterful at convincingly presenting lies as truth.
 @DeathnoteBB  Exactly, a lot of the "highly emotional empaths" people claim to be here probably don't realise that they are being a lot less honest than this woman who, despite her condition, has done the work.
 @aCleverFishingPun  Wow, ad hominems! What a reasonable and non-at-all abusive response!
 @harvardfacebook7372  how do you know if anyone is telling the truth? alot of people lie, not just sociopaths, this is another stigma around the disorder, to "other" them,  everyone can lie and most people do at some point. I'm not saying believe everything she says, but just like anyone they can make the choice to tell the truth or lie, they are still people, just because shes a sociopath dosnt mean that she cant speak the truth or that shes always lying if you dont believe her thats fine but, i feel like that should be applied to all random people you see on the internet not just because shes a sociopath. I mean think about it if you didnt know she was a sociopath and just a therapst speaking about the disorder would you comment something like this too? or would you actually take in what shes saying and try to understand the disorder?
No one is ever honest. Everyone is playing a character. You've all got selfish motivation in these comments. None of you, or I, am better than her. You just wanna feel morally superior to keep you feeling safe
@ if you’re being sincere, which I believe you are, thank you very much. Sometimes it’s hard to tell if people are being sincere or not. 🙂
They are known for being pathological liars. She is speaking truth and honesty but she is not telling the whole truth of what drives a sociopath.  Plus there's a lot of hypocrisy in what she is speaking about. For one, she thinks she's different from other sociopaths because she hasn't served any time in prison. Yet her drive to harm others, steal from people, or otherwise alleviate her stress by committing self indulging acts is exactly what those serving prison time were caught doing. Her drive and compulsion is no different, she just wasn't caught.  She also fails to mention that being a sociopath is not a static personality identity. They can slide  along a spectrum that has the potential to make them more dangerous at times of high stress or different phases of life. Such as when a spouse chooses to leave an unfeeling sociopathic partner. The sociopath can become more dangerous in thought and action as a result of the increased stress they are experiencing.  In her scenario not experiencing human emotions is seen as a positive thing, but that is not the experience of people around a sociopath. The difference is, she is willing to do harm to to others to serve herself some relief and joy. Normal people do not think or respond like that.
The word "anti-social" is colloquially used in the technical sense of "asocial"  The first time I heard the word "asocial" was when learning a different language. In my "dialect" anti-social means precisely "asocial" so I dont blame anyone for "confusing" the two terms.
 @Ichinin  As a psych major this was one of my pet peeves. I gave up on trying to explain it to people. They've made up their minds about it and usually come up with the same "colloquial" crap you see here. Clinically, they are two entirely different concepts.
Being asocial ("not social") and being  "against socialness/society" are two vastly different conditions!
Plus, there's a difference if you're indifferent to society or outright hate it...
 @edi9892  What if I'm both? Haha! I just want to be a hermit...
​ @brandonnotsowise2640  except the word doesn't only exist in a clinical context
So I’m Asocial if I really enjoy being alone and don’t want to socialize period 😂
 @ejovo  Anti means you're actively against something. Asocial, asexual etc. means there is a complete lack of interest in that thing.  If a person is still confused after I explain this, then yes, I will blame them.
 @brandonnotsowise2640  "Colloquial crap": Maybe it's rather confusing crap to name two different concepts in such a similar way that they are easily mistaken. It's really, really, really time that neuro cognitive aspects are not only integrated in psychology studies but introduced as a mandatory school subject.
​anti social is not being socially acceptable. an anti social can be extremely extrovert, go to party all the time, but they might think doing socially unacceptable acts are normal. asocial is just not liking or not wanting to be in a social space. also my pet peeve because ppl use anti social all the time when they mean asocial, so annoying
It’s mind boggling how often people are willfully ignorant to nuance. indifference and active hate are obviously not the same thing yet two words sounding similar is all it’s takes for pea-brains to merge the meanings lol
 @Ichinin  it's not. language evolves over time. like how "literally" now can mean "figuratively", the dictionary isn't as reliable of a source as the masses when it comes to language.
@ As I stated before, neuro cognitive psychology should finally be a school subject. Especially because of presumptuous people like you.
Wrong Antisocial Personality Disorder does not mean you want to be alone.  It means you despise other people and think you are superior to them.  Look it up!
 @oogabooga3838 I don’t accept that “ literally” can mean figuratively just because the masses mistakenly repeat the mistake. I am not trying to push back on the concept of language evolving
200 years ago, most people were asocial in that they lived isolated from other families. If I had the choice to either go back in time or to the future, I would pick the past. 200 years was like heaven compared to today. Literally everyone ate organic everything. Dogs literally ate better than most modern day American humans. Families were intact. Divorce was rare and stigmatized. Yes, there was slavery. But those were the tiny hats. My family aren't tiny hats.
 @derp8575  If i could bring modern medicine back with me, i'd go live in the past too. I would probably be happier too. For now, all i can hope for is to be able to buy a house on the outskirts of society so i don't have to deal with people pushing their drama and agendas on me.
I think a lot of that stuff happens in high school. The public school system is about 125 years old. The education system promotes the most obedient and intellectually dishonest people in society. It's a psycho-sorting system. My whole family are college educated. They were all popular at their respective schools. They all believe in things like abortion and C-19. They cannot debate it without throwing a temper tantrum. Like most popular people, they are used to getting their way. No one disagreed with them in high school and college.
As someone with ADHD I genuinely believe that a lot of these personality disorders are actually integral to a healthy functioning society. Sociopaths especially usually are able to do jobs that many others can't, like funeral directors, triage nurse, surgeon etc. And even disorders like ADHD and Autism lend themselves well to specific roles.  In my opinion a society where everyone is neurotypical actually would not progress. I remember reading a stat that 98% of the content online was created by only around 3% of the users. I would wager those 3% are largely neurodivergent.
@ Neurodivergent is one thing, being a full blown psychopath/sociopath is another thing. Kevin Dutton states that, indeed, a well socialised psychopath can contribute to this society as a surgeon instead of being a serial killer. But I tell you one thing: You often cannot draw a clear line. Mistreatment (not simply "malpractice") in the operating theatre is one of the big, big taboos no one is talking about. Several studies also suggest that psychopaths typically strive for certain professions and positions like CEOs and lawyers. So no wonder why this world is how it is.
You are correct. Once you encounter one, you usually recognize them right away. I am an empath so I make excuses for people and tend to over the look the subtle signs but when they drop the mask, even for only a moment... there is no denying it. They will have a glow at times and other times their eyes are black and cold.
I feel like society has put up very specific standards for how everyone is supposed to act and supposed to feel. I realize the way humans "feel" and experience things might be so much more diverse than i'd ever imagined.  But if anyone diverges from the arbitrary norm just a little bit they have to mask or will be called out and shunned. I'm suspecting to be autistic and i could relate so much, while my experience is probably close to opposite to hers. I do experience others feelings and moral standards too much and it causes me anxiety to the point i will lash out at objects. And it eats me up inside because i feel bad someone made this object and its immoral to destroy it. irrational i know...
I have bipolar type 2 and I feel the same way. I relate to her although I've never lashed out at anyone
Lots of people have been misdiagnosed and are super masking as a way of life survival with autism. Especially women . Very difficult long process to unpick sensory stressors children are has gaslit to not listen too. So many people call themselves liars or bad people in therapy as adults ,,, as they know from childhood they are not being authentic but everyone around them doesn’t educate them and wants ‘ the masked neurotypical behaviours.
Heck, from someone with ADHD, the way she describes her experience feels really relatable. Fighting urges, not feeling emotion the same as neurotypicals, having to mask certain emotions to feel safe in the social world. I even spent time analyzing movies and shows, and memorized the mbti when i was in middle school to figure out how to respond and react “properly”. It came more from a place to fit in, because i wasn’t getting the love i needed at home, but that navigation of the social world that seems so obvious to others and not to me feels so so relatable.
32:45  The idea that being a child to a parent and having to prioritise the parents reactions and emotions to something, over how the problem is affecting you (like how a bad grade might make future work harder for you, or you need to do something important but it has to go through a parent first) is such an interesting concept. Thinking about how, in that moment, it's more useful and helpful to the child to care about how a problem affects them, and that they shouldn't have to prioritise mediating your reactions, but rather how they feel and how they can do better (not for the parent but for themself.)
The way she is so conscious about herself and giving us the keys to understand her make this video captivating, the longer it went, the faster I could see "Oh, that's your mask" "Oh, that's you" AND the way she takes a second every time she says a word that is related to feeling ? Waoh. Captivating, without thinking of it.
Thank you for the interview. I loved how Mrs Gagne is talking about her husband being very emotional. I remembered when I was in clinical therapy for my bipolar disorder, I met a guy diagnosed with sociaopathy and we became very good friends. Not in a very emotinal way, more in a convenient way for both of us. He was not very liked by the rest but I very much enjoyed his way of not emotonal overreacting, because I was full of my emotions all of the time. In a way we balanced us out a lot and helped each other during therapy. That was decades ago and I dont even remember his name anymore. But I hope he is doing good.
Can i offer a morsel of perspective.  The reason why when you declare you are a sociopath and people lean IN rather than run for the hills might be a culmination of a few things :  1. You're  an attractive woman. 2. You're articulate in your speech . 3. You clearly are educated.  If these variables were the opposite then my guess is yes people may just Run the other way.   ??
My brother is a sociopath who used harming me as his way to get the "hit" she describes chasing, to relieve the emotional pressure. Once I moved out and he no longer had a target, he moved onto severe drug and alcohol abuse. I'm told he's off drugs these days but I wouldn't know, because his physical abuse and his lack of empathy and care for me throughout our lives has made it so we have no relationship today. His pathological lying and superficial charm has kept him out of the legal system and enabled by my parents. I don't wish death upon him but I will truly rejoice on the day they put him in the ground.   Can sociopaths live "normal" , high-functioning lives? Maybe so. But it's something I wouldn't ever risk my own sanity to discover. Despite what she claims, I would absolutely clutch my pearls and run shrieking in the other direction if she (or anyone else) disclosed to me that they are a sociopath.   Just about the only thing I agree with in this video is that we need to de-stigmatize it and get better about treating it, because the stigma and shame my parents felt about my brother's behavior is what stopped them from protecting me the way they should have. But like this woman says, people with sociopathy/anti-social personality disorder absolutely exist in a much higher number than 5% and I think we should all be a lot more careful about who we allow to get close to us because of it.
Her description of feeling relief with getting her diagnosis is probably pretty universal for neurodivergent people. I was also very relieved when I got diagnosed with GAD. Finally getting an explanation for why I felt so awful gave me hope. It also made me feel validated. I knew it wasn't my own fault that I was anxious. I wasn't just crazy. But until I had my diagnosis, I felt like I really was crazy. Having panic attacks all the time for seemingly no reason made me feel totally crazy. So my diagnosis was a big relief.
Your mind would be blown if you knew how many psychologists were sociopaths. It’s a huge predictor for somebody’s interest in that line of work.
This happens to be one of the most informative videos I have watched in a long time. I am a retired elementary teacher and wish I had this knowledge during my career. I worked with lots of kids that were on had undiagnosed personality disorders. I am wondering if one of the main reasons she has been able to understand, at a young age that much of her negative behaviors were wrong and to attempt to control them through ways that would not harm others or property was because of the way she was Raised- no apparent trauma, and a loving home that created an environment where right and wrong were clearly explained. There are so many people who do end up deep in the criminal system because they possibly didn’t have her background, no apparent trauma, loving and supporting parents, and intervention/ therapy. Wonderful video. Please do more like this
I don't think it's fear or judgement of sociopaths and psychopaths that is uppermost in my behavior towards those like you, but the tremendous pain and distress I have experiences because of your condition. I don't want you drawn and quartered or anything; but the trauma inflicted, consciously or unconsciously, makes ANYONE who has experienced it just want to get as far away from you as possible, and shrink from your presence. It's instinctive. As you point out on your part: your behavior is not personal. Neither is mine.
I love that she is given such an uninterrupted form to create a complex discussion and maintain nuance in personal experiences and her professional background absolutely fantastic to see this as a resource for learning
This lady is brave for putting out her flaws out there for the world to hear about it and learn from it. It’s undeniably scary to think a lot of people are like this and may not know how to manage their mental state.
I found this video so fascinating, thank you! As a mental health professional with high empathy, I’ve been burnt out and realized that clinicians that can disconnect emotionally have much greater success in the long term. I do believe that having warmth and empathy as a therapist is necessary for some clients, but I agree that overall, the purpose is to assist in solving a problem. Oftentimes, having an emotional response as the provider can hinder this, rather than help.  I also agree that each personality trait, emotion, and experiences is on a spectrum. Which makes clear diagnoses involving drawing the line somewhere and naming ways of being extremely difficult. Hearing her experience further proves this for me and I’m grateful to hear her perspective.  It also allows me to have less judgement for people that are born the way they are. I’ve always felt this, but it’s helpful to be reminded that the same pleasure I get from helping people, someone else gets from being destructive etc. Why should I feel good or morally superior about doing what comes natural to me and they not, ya know?
I couldn't date a person like this, but I'm glad she found the one who can.
Her being a therapist and only talking about the benefits of her sociopathic traits for her work with clients is a huge problem for me. There are also very specific risks that come with her sociopatic traits and as a professional she should have adressed them aswell.   It's concerning.
This was EXTREMELY INTERESTING. It is amazing that someone who is sociopathic can express things in a way that someone who is “Neurotypical” can understand.
It's truly amazing how she not only managed to understand and accept herself, but build a productive and high functional life, turning her negative tendencies into strengths (as a professional and mother) that benefit herself AND others. I understand not every sociopath will have the opportunity or profile to achieve what she did though. It's not to say it didn't (and probably still does) take work from her part, but there was no trauma, she had money, support from her parents, and is an intelligent woman. Takes opportunity, the right tools/professionals and the right profile. But I agree, there should be more debate about this and other disorders, which makes me really appreciate the video, very enlightening. The OCD comparison was really interesting.
It chills and fascinates me how similar this is to my experience of (genuine, diagnosed, strong presentation) ADHD. I am capable of a great degree of compassion, care, and empathy - but certainly not always. I meet this woman about 65% of the way, and many people who know me well (as well as anyone can) would not know that. I've always been exactly like this.
Getting empathy and emotional reactions from my therapist when I shared my stories is what helped me the most so this lady would not have been very helpful to ME personally, but we're all different!!
Goes from talking about a little girl who she was friends with to 'I remember the day I attacked this child' is super chilling and shows just how disconnected she is from that person's experience. Scary and fascinating.
"Does my therapist like me?" - Fascinating that she really doesn't understand this impulse and thinks we should just see therapists as professionals who do a job, like any other kind of health care professional.   Yes, they are. But you don't expose private stuff about your life and your personality to the other types of health care professionals.  I also wonder what my dentist thinks of my teeth.
This is a very good piece of wisdom, but not revolutionary if you were operating in the gentle parenting sphere of thought. Gentle parenting or conscious parenting is concerned with giving children the tools and space to have their experience, have their emotions and grow into the best version of themselves with the caregivers' support (as opposed to parental control or the opposite, a total lack of boundaries). I feel like gentle parenting is really misunderstood because a lot of people who 'try' to gentle parent land up in permissive parenting instead, which has very negative outcomes for the child.
Could you provide examples from the video, timestamps, anything? Would love to learn more!
What is your definition of friendship? What kind of friendship was that where you now don't even remember his name? I remember the names of friends from elementary school and I'm 46 years old...
 @kellyknight1773  I remember qualities and things about people but this like names are easily forgotten in time. I forgot the names of people I've dated. I've forgotten names of people I met yesterday. I still remember the important parts
@kellyknight1773  It's a crazy notion but some people have worse memories than you. Since we are individuals and have our own brains and lives that affect what our minds decide retain.
@kellyknight1773  like I stated, it was a very convenient friendship for both of us. It left an impact nevertheless.  And yes. My memory is not the best, also due to bipolar disorder. I once even forgot the name of my own brother. It does not mean I cate less about the people I meet. My brain just got a bit damaged here and there navigating my way out of some bad bad years. But kudos to you that you can still recall such details. 😀
People tend not to lean into unattractive,unedited,inarticulate people just in general. The thing I'd say that sets her apart is there's a frankness which is disarming,it weirdly makes you trust her even though making that statement should have the opposite affect.
 @Lazylinepainter.  ,i should just say: attractive, blond, white, well spoken, well dressed.
None of your theories appeal to me. Those piercing eyes freak me the heck out. Something movie monster about her eyes, for sure. Articulate to the point of attempting to gaslight us into thinking it was not her getting off on the pain of others but the euphoria after she stabbed somebody with a pencil. Educated, yes. To the point of being able to manipulate. This chick freaks me out.
“This chick freaks me out”  That is your gut instinct, your Pinocchio jimmy cricket helping you out. That’s good. :) It does that...like in the wild when a deer can sense a wolf pack. Listen to your jimmy cricket, it is a protector.
To be honest, I’m afraid of her and would run away. Her behavior freaks me out.
 @suminshizzles6951  true. You've never, ever, hurt anybody - emotionally or physically - to any extent. And if you had, I'm sure you would have done the introspective heavy-lifting and self-honesty needed  to be open in a way that might help others facing problems or personality disorders similar to you. Narcissist.
Which is the very same reason why some 'good girls' also love 'bad boys'.
4. They’ve known you for a long time and haven’t gotten weird vibed from you yet so they feel safe enough to learn more.
the thing that causes people to lean in is the lack of judgment. obviously these superficial factors are more endearing than someone who lacks them, but the fundamental thing at play is still that most people carry some darkness with them, and having a civil safe conversation with a sociopath who isn't plugged into shame or guilt and isn't going to react negatively when they speak to their negative traits is cathartic.
I wouldn't take her report of everyone leaning in at face value.
I do think that's just the surface.Cause she did say that she learned to navigate social situations by copying her dad (being charming) and generally avoiding things that can make people upset.It's not merely that she's 'attractive',cause maybe,just maybe,she learns how to 'correctly' present herself as welcoming 🤔
That was the part that made me feel like she was being manipulative and dishonest. Most people would immediately feel uncomfortable, or that the other person is BS ing to make themselves appear more interesting. She probably gets that reaction from therapists who have a clinical interest in her condition and men who find her attractive.
 @youtube_username_  And yet this video has over a million views in less than 2 weeks, so someone is clearly paying attention.
I wonder if part of the reason we are creeped out by her is because we know she is a sociopath and all of the negative connotations that come along with that label.   She creeped me out a bit earlier in the interview but once I disconnected from that aspect and just listened to her speak and watched her mannerisms I don’t think we would be creeped out by her if we didn’t know she is a sociopath.   I do agree that part of people not being immediately put off by her when they find out she is a sociopath all the factors you listed impact that as well as peoples general curiosity and being intrigued.
 @suminshizzles6951 same exact reaction! I would stay far away from her and I would avoid a therapist who thinks not having empathy is some kind of selling point!
 @123frida  me too!  She is completely justifying and rationalizing her crimes without a shred of remorse for any of the people she hurt!
 @youtube_username_  exactly.  She is manipulative and very good at it.
She is not a sociopath, she is a psychopath gaslighted us.
@sandyallsopp6778  neither are official labels anyway. Its the spectrum of anti social personality disorder.  Infact in real terms of language in psychology and psychiatry she's neither a psychopath or sociopath
 @LicoriceLain  "And yet this video has over a million views in less than 2 weeks, so someone is clearly paying attention."  This movie reached number one in 35 different countries. That is Netflix gaslighting you. If they limit what you see, then people will click on crap and watch it.
People are fascinated by dark, mysterious things. Whether she's attractive and well-spoken or not, most people are curious about things and people that are uniquely different. Sure, some people might 'run away' from that person but they will not run away from information or gossip about that person.
Can relate. Sometimes, part of it is inherited, either culturally or genetically, from parents. Hence, little protection from one or both parents.
Yeah... I had a friend that, probably not a sociopath but definitely fell into a cluster B. The way she interacted with my own issues was so insanely cruel and harmful that I have 0 patience for anyone that is remotely like it. Because like it or not, the only way to have a relationship with that person is to place a huge wall of indifference around them. That is not a person I want in my life. That's not a personal I want to tolerate.
What she didn't took into consideration was the gender gap. Like in everything else (pay, social capital, etc) there is a gender gap in sociopathy between males and females. Violent behaviours are accepted more in males than in females and social acceptance in males give them the freedom to be violent (DV, child abuse, animal abuse, war crimes, etc) I agree that the percentage of people with this personality disorder is way higher than the 5 % from statistics. If I would make a bet based on my life experiences is around 20%
That line about nobody clutching their pearls and running away was manipulative AF.  🚩🚩🚩
I grew up in a generation that heard all the nature vs nurture arguments and it seemed at the time that nurture was to blame. I grew up hearing “I blame the parents…” a lot. This lead me to believe that “all you need is love”. Oh boy, was I naive! But I was definitely lead there! I really thought that this was the most up to date wisdom on the subject of “bad kids” - that all they needed was understanding and love. But apparently this was not wisdom and it wasn’t the apex of academic research on the subject either, but it was far too late for me by the time I found that out.
I also have a brother like that, and I agree 100%. I would absolutely get away from anyone who shares his characteristics. The damage they cause is something that may never be healed.
 @SorceryRoom  The most manipulative thing she said was when she meets people that are conflicted about helping sociopaths, she tells them that sociopaths were once children and wouldn't you want to help a child?  The way she said it you can tell she doesn't give af about imaginary children.  She's just turning screws.   Lady, we'll help you because it's the right thing to do.  Just don't kill anyone.
Can you be an asocial sociopath vs an antisocial sociopath? Can emotions just take a while to be felt, after being intellectuallized? Where logic plays a role and not everything is a knee jerk reaction? This definitely has to be a spectrum. The pressure to act out because of masking is akin to an autistic person having a meltdown from having to mask, or the exhaustion they feel from masking. I would love to listen to more about this.
That whole interview is manipulative AF Manipulating the masses for the big pharma check IS the new grift
 @Runningwithpillows  "Can emotions just take a while to be felt, after being intellectuallized?" That sounds to me more like PTSD. One can disconnect so far from their actual emotions as a coping mechanism that the have to intellectualize back to them. I lived many years like that and is sucked bad. Thank G-d I can now actually feel again.
 @SorceryRoom yes, definitely. As well as a few other things. She is on agenda, and it’s not to “get her condition off her chest “. Promoting her book, her practice or something else is definitely there
​​ @Nicole-uq2ul massive disagreement, I've never needed guilt to "correct" my behaviour in the slightest, if anything I watched people become more self destructive because of their guilt in a messed up feedback loop. She was wearing normal clothing for a person her age in each photo, it says more about your perverted state of mind to imply what she wore was inappropriate
​​ @Nicole-uq2ul you don't need guilt, what you do need is the ability to take a step back and examine what went wrong. For me, I may not be able to understand others emotions to the same extent (been considering a schizoid personality disorder diagnosis for this reason, as well as the inability to feel guilt or shame), but I make decisions based on their emotions because most of the time there's a significant amount of logic behind emotional responses once analysed. If I do something that causes that reaction, I'll take a step back and investigate, not throw a pity party for myself
I think this is a balancing act you’re doing really well with, actually. On one hand you don’t want to hold people responsible for the crimes of an individual, but on the other hand you have to honor where you’re at and know your limits. You disengaging from the sociopathic conversation keeps you safe where you’re vulnerable and adds to the room given for some to figure out how to be better people. I wish you all the healing you need, and I appreciate how you navigated your journey :)
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
Sociopaths do not exist. What your brother really is is "being a jerk." This "hit" thing is not unique. Everyone engages in this thinking to some extent, it's entirely environmental and changeable, assuming you don't medicalize the problem as a "thing" and obsess over it as part of your "identity." "Socio" "Psycho" whatever paths do not, and will never exist, not a single thing mentioned in this video is abnormal, or unchangeable. "Neurotypicals" do not, and will never exist. People with this exist at 0% because it's a fantasy.
I also blame chemicals in food, medications, water, air...These aren't good for anybody.
 @LDJ-r8e  Yes and no. If there are ways to help people cope in a way they don't cause harm to others, then that is a great way to keep them part of society. Don't forget they aren't all the worst of the worst. I doubt you would like it when you find out you have a child that turns out to be a sociopath and someone starts yelling they don't care your child can't help yourself, they don't want your kid near them, their kids or even in their community. If they actually performed that which you say, they would forcefully collect your child. You can dislike the disorder, but even if they act in a way we don't like, they are human beings. They too have parents.. family. I agree that protecting society is needed, but shunning a whole group of people where we only seem to know the worst cases of, seems a bit overboard. Even if she is manipulating in this video (promoting her book and bragging about her carrier and having a husband and kids), she is right that there needs to be more research done in order to start looking into treatment(s). Don't forget ADHD was labelled 'those annoying and useless kids/people' back in the day. Now we know better. Autism used to be completely misunderstood as well. Although I believe we haven't figured it all out yet. Perhaps socio/psychopaths are also part of the spectrum. Time will tell. But removing people from society will result in the evil things that have happened in the past. They get locked up in a crazy ward and used to test new medication on, without their consent. Or worse, some of those people disappeared, never to be seen again.
Agree, that Nicole guy is a creep 😂 i don't even realize the dress.​ @lazyperfectionist3978 
I'm agree with you, but I can't believe these replies. I might couldn't get pass this behavior, but doesn't mean we can't do something to treat it. People with sociopaty could function healthily if we get rid the stigma first and start normalizing the treatment as facility like what depression have with therapy. A sociopath is a sociopath monster until they hurt other. If they're not then they're just person, with sociopath.  But, do the these people watched the 48 min video at all? Or they don't ? Even if they did, a person just told you how they function so you know it firsthand rather than asuming from some sort of mythological novelized sociopath, but you still couldn't get any understandment from it?
It shows how much has to do with our individual experiences. I've had a mostly good experience with a diagnosed sociopath, but my main trauma has come from people with BPD.
Thanks for sharing. Self diagnosis is difficult and unlikely. Parents are often averse to subjecting their child to the potential risks of medical or psychological misdiagnosis, because of the increased risk of harm.  Your situation could have been dealt with better under different circumstances.  Forgiveness is a very powerful tool, that you may benefit from.  Not to accept harm. Not to allow it to continue.  To allow the harm that took place in your childhood to not be harming you now. To release yourself, to eventually release your parents from past harm, and potentially even release your brother …  Releasing emotional harm that does not serve you, can allow you to grow.  Have high standards, and require they be met by those around you now, but have compassion /empathy for mental health problems.  There is often more to the story than anyone talks about.  Harm can not be undone by the person who inflicted it, but only by the person who is living through it today… in memory, grudge, heartache, remorse….  All of those take up your energy.  Free yourself. Lovingly.
Your brother is what happens when they aren’t modeled self control growing up or don’t get therapy to help them learn healthy coping skills.  Majority of sociopaths have an anxiety ridden addictive brains that are hardwired for INTENSE impact of self destructive tendencies because their brains are quicker to boredom. Psychopaths it’s way worse because they are BORN with this instead so there is no saving them or getting to stop being like this.  I do know anxiety meds is one of the feel things in psychiatry that does help some sociopaths tbh if they actually have intense anxiety issues around needing to do things.   It’s similar to how people with OCD or a Nicotine addiction can’t stay calm till they do their impulsive behavior to release the pressure of a craving or a need.   Kind of like how in “Sherlock” with Benedict Cumberbatch, he even says he’s a high functioning Sociopath and used Nicotine patches to curve his impulsive issues, which was actually fascinating stuff to have that added into his character and a possible clue into what possibly may help those with sociopathy.
 @Runningwithpillows Also you can be duel diagnosed with Autism & Sociopathy. Which is something new that has been happening the last 5-6yrs as new develops are happening in the psychological field on diagnosis & treatment.
 @jeffreychandler8418  Same man. I have learned and understood certain types of people are harming me, and the type of person I am could even instigate such behaviour. I avoid them as much as I possibly can, or keep a respectful distance. It's just for me and myself only to disengage with behaviour I know will cause me harm. It doesn't even matter what the other person 'is', I couldn't care less.
 @rhiannonh.7463  I disagree with a large majority of your comment here. My brother was modeled self-control and my parents did attempt to put him through therapy. But those attempts were met with violent outbursts in the therapists office. It's not like they did nothing, it's just that none of it worked, because these kinds of people can't be truly helped.
Agreeing that we should de-stigmatize sociopathy but saying you’d clutch your pearls and run if someone told you they were a sociopath seems like a bit of a contradiction. Not trying to be judgy, just trying to make both of those opinions make sense
My circle is very small, yup. Lots of people have very little empathy, unfortunately. This cruel world usually doesn’t reward those who are compassionate. I have way too much empathy sometimes and will never understand how anyone can be so callous and just not care about the suffering of others. Especially those who are most vulnerable. It’s very important for science to understand this better so we can mitigate harm in the future. Hard for anything like that to happen in a world driven mostly by greed though.
I feel this comment so much because it’s basically my life I’m living I’m just still stuck in it because Im too disabled to live on my own
 @Luke55827  De-stigmatizing something means removing the shame from it. I feel as though we should remove the shame of discussing and diagnosing sociopathy, instead of treating it like a rare diagnosis that only very certain types of people can have. It's more common than we think. That does NOT mean I think we should be tolerant or accepting of it, hence why I said I would run screaming in the other direction from a sociopath.
Very sorry for what you had to yo through. i agree with you and am a little shocked by the enthusiasm that lots of people utter here. While i understand and share the fascination to learn more on sociopaths through this video, personally i certainly feel very turned off and like running fast when i imagine a sociopath close to me: I would feel terrible if my friend or partner has no real empathy for me. Awesome though that this woman and hopefully lots more sociopaths make the effort and find a way to live a good and non-destructive life. Props!
Tell me about it. I married the most wonderful man, the "perfect man" that made me say to him..."You are an angel sent by God, just for me!" He smiled👹, maybe thinking...you don't have any idea what is ahead of you!! That angel resulted to be the son of the devil ór the davil himself. His life and personality fit perfectly to most of this story. 😢
​ @chunguschungus  Data disagrees with you. And you should get out more often.
 @CeciledeLuire  Completely agree with you there!! Thank you for your kind words!
Every word of this. The average people is INCREDIBLY naive about the damage people with ASPD can and will do.
@ No it doesn't and people who cite "le authority 🤓" without actually citing or explaining it have never read any of it.
 @CeciledeLuire   Most don't get the help they need, and their behavior is damaging and worse.  My parents were two.  It seems, in these comments, that people are forgetting that most don't get help.
 @chunguschungus   Then you need to read and study more.  There are websites that go into vast detail on these things.
@ @ "le source (I won't describe or reference) disagrees my duderino just trust me bro!" You need to read, study, and think about this even just once as you clearly haven't seeing how you can only (not) cite someone else's opinion.
Yes, acknowledging the issue would have allowed them a means to protect you instead of gaslighting
RUN as soon as you figure it out!! My sister same thing she used to love to terrify the animals and get them to chase her and she was always hiding and jumping out at you and scaring you and my fight or flight was on 100 for years. She thought the most creepy stuff was funny and her fourth husband is just like her and I stay far away. We are total opposites LOL but then again we are adopted🎉
Some people here are apparently afraid of what they think sociopaths are or aren’t, maybe based on personal traumatic experiences like the OG, maybe because they just want to see the world in simple ways they understand, believing people they don’t understand to be deviant, dangers and demons. To me, the more often than not irrational fear and the subsequent fearmongering of you xenophobes is what I fear and despise most. You are not even trying to see and acknowledge your own fears and limitations in judgement, but go on justifying your own behaviour as normal as to not even feel a little doubt about your own part in making this world a not so good place. To me, anyone who demonises others without acknowledging the complexities of society and the human condition is more of a threat than some who impulsively or compulsively does destructive things but tries their best to get better and work against their wiring. They are trying and cooperating at least. Not to say there are people with socially difficult conditions who don’t „try enough“, for lack of ability, insight or care, some of which opt to be very ok with harming others, who keep being a destructive force to a point where it has to be dealt with and we built a justice system for that so, you know, when that system fails, let’s work on bettering the system, not promote more hate and potentially vigilantism as I’ve seen in other comments. But in my book, people who promote simplified generalisations and othering themselves are a threat to society as a whole. How about looking at what you can do to not add to not making it harder for people and instead help by not standing in the way of people trying to gap something that you naturally didn’t have to put any effort in :( ignorance sure is bliss, one that dooms others
@ You are surely not going to clutch your pearls in fear and run away, aren’t you? Aren’t you?  She is suggesting that anybody who would have an issue being a friend with a sociopath is THAT PERSON.
 @Dao_Tui  There was currently no known treatment for psychopathy or sociopathy
I've gotta say, when she said, "You'd want to help a child, right? And the answer is always yes." The thing that pinged in my mind was, would she say yes?
 @Runningwithpillows  Sociopaths are not more logical, that’s just a commonly accepted fallacy. They do have emotions, what they lack is an ability to identify with or care about other people’s feelings.
I thought the exact same thing. Getting an ADHD diagnosis was such a relief because it alleviated (some of) the shame of struggling so hard with things that other people seem to do effortlessly. It's like... yeah, if you're not struggling with something fundamental, you probably don't want to be told there's something "wrong" with you. But if you ARE suffering, having a reason for it is a gift.
I would not be suprised at all. The industry is incredibly corrupt. Listening to her talk actually made me realize that most therapists are probably sociopaths. She says she doesn't think people wonder whether their oncologist likes them. Damn straight we do! If you are a forthright human being of integrity, you want ALL of your medical team to like you, a lot! Your life is in their hands, they'd better damn sure like you. If any of my doctors ever act otherwise or make decisions that reflect otherwise, they're immediately fired. She's totally missing that these are CARING professionals, and you can't do your "job" of helping people without actually liking them. It's not punching cards at a factory, you do actually have to care about people to do a good job in ALL medicine. When you don't, the emotionally intelligent people can tell right away.
And that fact is SO sick and twisted. All therapists should be required to be tested and not have any major personality disorders or be sociopaths or psychopaths. All doctors of any kind, too.
I wonder that too. Because her awareness of herself and her feelings, as a sociopath, were active while she was SO young. Meanwhile me, someone Hyperactive Autistic (feels bigly) I had little awareness of it until I was 20. The difference upbringing can make is huge. She knew what right and wrong was. She knew what feelings were and how she should or should not feel them, but also that she could feel them. Meanwhile, for me, I had a single path of right and dozens of paths for wrong. Feelings never mattered.
I don't think she has any idea of right and wrong. She understands that actions have consequences, and that's it!
 @LukeSumIpsePatremTe  if two paths lead to the same outcome, why is one better?
 @jeffreychandler8418  I truly believe that a curious, nurturing and inclusive environment has the potential to make a huge difference for people who society labels as disordered or taboo
Yes, it is clear that she was conditioned to positive human traits and healthy social normality, which she has learned to utilise for her own best interests, which are fortunately socially acceptable
 @LukeSumIpsePatremTe She almost explicitly states that she understands right and wrong… She just doesn’t have any emotional or intrinsic compulsion to behave ‘right’
@ dads normally instill this, I think her dad did not care enough, so she got away with a lot of nonsense
i don't think she had an environment growing up where right and wrong were clearly explained.... no way, not at all, this is exactly what was lacking.
@ as you write... she doesn't have the WILL, that intrinsic compulsion, to behave right.  Why should she?  If it was never taught and developed and valued and respected?  It doesn't matter how I sound...
 @muma6559  Because that’s not the only means of determining right and wrong or how to behave. She has learned to rationalise behaviour in response to seeing how others behave.  There is absolutely no reason to suspect her ASPD stems from her father, in fact it was him who suggested her to find professional advice and she explicitly states that his good nature is one of the influences which led her to develop a good sense of what’s right despite her lack of natural compulsion.  ASPD does not stem from a lack of a having right and wrong “clearly explained.” That’s simply not how it works and these are the reasons you sound ignorant.   My profile picture says nothing to this subject. It is there for the sake of absurd humour and that is it. Not does it anything away from the literal decade of keen learning that I have in the subject of psychology.
 @LukeSumIpsePatremTe  People with AsPD do understand right from wrong, as has been established about a million times by now.
@ of course it was dad's suggestion, because he didn't do his job, and he knows it
@ i agree, they do know right from wrong but are motivated to do wrong... mostly from a lack of parental/father's guidance and correction
Omg I came on this thread to agree with your comment! It's not the sociopathic traits on their own that can end in violence and criminality, it's when these align with unstable and unhappy living environments, child neglect and domestic violence!
Omg I came on this thread to agree with your comment! It's not the sociopathic traits on their own that can end in violence and criminality, it's when these align with unstable and unhappy living environments, child neglect and domestic violence!
 @LukeSumIpsePatremTe  She does have an idea of right and wrong, but it's cognitive, rather than emotionally based.
Absolutely. I dated someone like this for about six months after a period of friendship. While he was brilliant and interesting, the pain of being in close relationship with him, just out of a lack of reciprocity, warmth, and understanding was not sustainable for me.   People get blackballed for sociopathy because being close to them typically hurts. Understanding others is great. Having compassion is great. But most people don’t want to be close to sociopathic people because it hurts. Regardless of the “why”. I can’t educate myself into feeling like I want to be close to someone who can’t provide the warmth that makes intimacy rewarding. And I think that’s the truth for a lot of people choosing to distance themselves - it’s just not very rewarding (at best) but can be extremely dangerous (at worst).   You notice how invested she is in understanding people like her, but doesn’t seem to show much interest in reciprocity and seeing things from their perspective (shocker - lack of empathy). The “taker” vibe is strong. I don’t wish her ill, either, but her vibe is not even the least bit welcoming. Whether she likes it or not, most people want a positive and warm emotional experience with their partner. No amount of intellectualism and education will overcome that for most people seeking partnership.
You do realize that is generalizing and stereotyping right? Like that is the exact definition of generalizing. You are using your personal experience with a few people who were a member of a specific group (which I don’t doubt was terrible and I don’t want to minimize) and are now assuming that EVERYONE in that group is gonna be exactly like those few you have met.
@ or it’s having discernment about distancing themselves from people with harmful tendencies and personality disorders, which are proven to be very problematic for general well-being for others close to them. It’s just self-preservation and having standards. I know absolutely no one who would advise getting close to someone with destructive tendencies and is very emotionally unhealthy. Staying away is valuing yourself enough to not want to be entangled with that.
Yes, I understand and agree with you. I suffered for years from the effects of a narcissist who waS also a sociopath. I will never expose myself to anyone Ike that again, it almost killed me.
 @Witchful_thinking22  You can generalize assuming a lack of empathy and tendency towards antisocial behavior about a group when the reason they are even in the group is that they lack empathy and have a tendency towards antisocial behavior.
Lol, the more I read the comments here, the more I see that people don’t get who she really is. Hint: she’s the kind of person who might take advantage of others, like harming a child for her own gain if she thought no one would notice.
 @NikedaNinja  Thank you for the work that you do! I hope you find a balance. I've noticed that the more empathetic therapists I've worked with usually had more impactful trains of thought and words of confidence to offer me, while the more removed therapists felt safer overall but barely said things that resonated. With removed therapists, I didn't have to learn to understand the responses/microresponses and figure out if I was safe or not, they were just blank and receptive, but with empathetic therapists I felt like something was said almost every session that jolted me into thinking about things differently - because they actually resonated and came from a place of really hearing me and taking on my point of view. I think balanced therapist have the ability to really be remarkable. Good luck!
 @lisaloreign485  So well said. I am studying to be a therapist and I think balance is key. I don't think have a therapist give you blank stares is helpful. I want someone empathetic and to have the capacity for vulnerability.
Just be keenly aware of 1) transference; it happens with us and with our clients. It happens all the time, outside of work as well. Some guy is suddenly cranky with you in a check out line, bc you remind him of his cheating ex wife. 😂 or is kind to you bc you remind him of his oldest daughter. It’s much more subtle and nuanced but you understand. 2) practice putting up a shield, and showering off everything you’ve taken on. Let it all run down the drain. ❤ it’s hard. You’re very right to say: “wait. Why am I taking on this emotional labor and the other person isn’t?” I think there’s a way to not lose our empathy but also not be sucked dry. Of course, there’s always a few clients who get under our skin and who we root for more than others. ❤ but, draw up that shield a bit, journal, and let the worry wash down the drain.
 @lisaloreign485 great point. Our empathy is appreciated! I do believe person centered care is key. People know that I’m rooting for them.
 @KatenJace  Aw. I'm happy you're in the field. I agree. People need to know you're rooting for them, not just trying to fix them.
You have a therapist, right?   And they didn't teach you things like deflect don't absorb in school?   You have to compartmentalize some how.  I was instructed by a psychologist, how to build up another person in my head that only has cognitive empathy.  This isn't any DID thing, it's hard to explain, but the stuff she experiences seems distant from my own experiences.  The problem is when you don't know you need to be that other self and don't have time to do it and smack, something just hits you. 🫣😬🤯.   Careful about self medicating.  Before I knew how to protect myself from horrific things, I as many, turned to alcohol.  I've seen people fall into meth...I hope you are getting the help you need to be able to better help others. 🤗❤️. I hope you know i am not trying to criticize you.  I got myself way in over my head wanting to help kids.  It led to "the most severe case of burnout" my MD Dr. said she had seen.  I don't know if she was being literal or not, but it got my attention. 🤗
Same. I wonder if they have an "understanding" where he can step out and get his emotional needs met
I couldn’t imagine being married and having children with someone that doesn’t feel compassion or empathy, or remorse or guilt. I accidentally snapped at my mom the other day and the guilt I felt afterwards that made me hug her and tell her I love her. That’s what makes me human. Those that suffer from sociopathy — I feel for you. But the fact that you cannot feel makes me wish to never interact with anyone that suffers from this disorder.
Peoople like her have found a different way of going to rome.   I bet she will say sorry and I love you, not out of guilt empathy or remorse but simply because she does not want her partner to feel hurt. There is beauty in that. I can accept someone like that in my life, sad to hear you lack compassion  to do so in yours
 @kittykitteh3747 people have the gift of choice and not everything has to be taken in. You can wish people well from a distance and choose a different path for yourself.
 @kittykitteh3747  it makes one wonder who in fact is really lacking in empathy. I had no problem sympathising and at times truly empathising with this woman's experience.
​ @dominicharlow747   I think it's good to have boundaries and preferences. It does make me personally a little uncomfortable when people compare themselves to people with disabilities and say that a specific thing they are laking is something that's a defining quality of a human.  I mean imagine saying to someone with poorly regulated emotions that qualities such as level-headedness and foresight makes you human. Or to a deaf/ mute person that being able to speak does. Idk just an ableist approach in my opinion and I think it doesn't really add anything to your statement. It's really beautiful that you had that experience with your mom but don't link it to the whole being human thing because the woman in the video is also human and is just processing stuff differently. Also this is a long response but I mostly wrote this because a lot of the people in this comment section kind of had this reaction, but I feel like you wrote the "quiet part" out loud about the whole being human thing. I just feel like it isn't really helpful when people do this in a social sense, I know you wrote "that makes me human" not "that makes us human" but it's still a bad way of going about it. I think if you had a stroke tomorrow and you suddenly felt no more empathy, you would still be human and worthy of being on the receiving end of care and love. It is completely fine that you don't want to be on the giving end of this sort of arrangement, personally I wouldn't either.
 @a.sch.1261  Thank you for your response. I genuinely read through it all, and agree with some. Low to moderate sociopaths that can function in society deserve love, even if they cannot give it themselves. It would just take someone who is fine with not receiving it, but sociopaths do deserve it. But I’m going to have to disagree with you on calling this an ableist approach. Mute, deaf, poorly regulated emotions, etc. are all in an entirely different basket than sociopathy. Humans at their core are social creatures. Since the first humans, groups and villages and cities and countries have all stuck together to depend on one another. It takes a village to raise a child. We cannot do everything on our own, and we desperately need to depend on each other to thrive. Humans are social beings. Sociopathy is the antithesis to this. It’s literally called anti-social personality disorder, because those with sociopathy feel zero need to be part of the social fabric that ties humanity together. That’s not being ableist, that’s just acknowledgement. Sociopaths should and do mask themselves to fit in with other social humans. If they operated the way they truly felt, the rest of everyone would absolutely despise them for being remorseless and unempathic. Me saying the capacity for compassion is what makes me human does not mean I think sociopaths are not deserving of love. But don’t get me wrong. They don’t deserve love because they are sociopaths. Rather, they deserve love in spite of being sociopaths. They are not on the same level of social humanity that you and I are. And that’s okay. The ironic part is your empathy allows you to feel bad for them and uncomfortable with my phrasing, whereas an actual sociopath could not care less how I phrase it because the validation of others is not something they give a damn about. I respect sociopaths. I would never choose to love one. (that wasn’t related to me).
​@dominicharlow747  she never said she doesn't feel emotions, but that he feelings aren't as intense as that of her husband and others. She wanted a family when she grew up, but she also knew she couldn't be with just anyone. She may not experience remorse or guilt in the sense that you or I do, but she doesn't go out of her way to intentionally hurt people.   At least she got help when her father suggested it. She could have completely rejected the notion altogether that she needs help. She stuck with the therapy and put in the work to better understand herself, and to change how she copes with the need to release pressure. She found healthy ways to relieve that pressure.   The fact that she also recognizes how parents respond to something like a child getting a bad grade and handling it in a way that focuses more on the child's feelings and thoughts over it, as opposed to making them feel bad for the bad grade, is a plus for her in the parenting department. Her kids probably feel like they can express their feelings better and that means she can get to the core of why they got said bad grade and help them to do better in the future.   Emotional responses from parents about a bad grade do more harm than good. Most kids already feel bad about that bad grade. They don't need their parents to heap more guilt on them. That's never done any child any good. They just feel worse about themselves, and end up with a complex.
@RachelLWolfe “She doesn’t go out of her way to intentionally hurt people.” She’s a sociopath, not a bad or evil person. Someone evil would intentionally hurt people just for the sake of it. A sociopath wouldn’t do that. They would only hurt people opportunistically if they gained any benefit from it.   She said something in the video which was a great look into the psyche of a sociopath. She said she went to therapy and didn’t want to continue going down a destructive path because it would lead to jail. She didn’t want to go to jail because “there are other things she’d rather do.” She doesn’t see jail as a place to repent for her actions and feel remorse. She doesn’t avoid crime because it’s the right thing to do. She avoids crime because jail would ruin her schedule of whatever plans she has.   I’m not saying she is bad or evil. She is devoid of the full capacity of emotions that make us who we are. Humans are social at their core. She and others like her are anti-social. That doesn’t make her a bad person or evil. I see them the same way I see a polar bear. They’re not evil. But if they were to kill you, they’d just go about their day. I’m fine with learning about them from afar and zero intention of interacting with or trying to love them. The ones that choose to marry them have the patience of saints, so good for them.
ask yourself what was the reason or motive behind commenting this and wording it in the way that you did.
​@RachelLWolfe  Wanting a family isn't an emotion, it's a goal. My dad (not a sociopath) used to say all the time that he knew growing up he wanted to get married and have a son. But when I was a kid, he would tell adults in front of me constantly that he hated kids, and no, it wasn't a joke. He had literally no interest in me once he realized I wasn't exactly like adult him in a child body.  He also really had no emotional attachment to the idea of marriage.
 @kittykitteh3747  I disagree, she doesn't care about how her partner feels based on what she described, she would say I'm sorry and I love you because she gets something that benefits her so she doesn't want him to leave.......
@yourworstfan  I never said that wanting to have a family is an emotion. I'm not sure where you read that, but it was never said or even implied, so I'll ask you kindly to not put words in my mouth, or twist what I actually did say to fit a contrived meaning/understanding.   Your father is your father, and his thoughts and feelings aren't the same as everyone else, so unless you personally know exactly what ones thoughts and feelings are, it's hard to pass judgment, don't you think?  I try to take everyone at their word until their actions say otherwise.
@dominicharlow747  I replied to you the other day, but apparently, my comment was removed. I'm not sure why, as nothing in my comment could have been construed in a bad way.   To summarize what I did say, you and I are almost saying the exact same thing, but comparing a human being to an animal isn't exactly a fair or proper comparison. Bears lash out and attack people out of fear, and because they see us as a food source. It's not the same. She's not going on a killing spree and isn't roaming the streets looking for people to eat and/or maim. Everyone in the comments is acting like she's doing exactly that.   I try to give people grace and try to understand people, and she is trying to shed light on why she is the way she is and why others like her are the way they are.   If we cannot give grace to others, we shouldn't expect grace to be given to us. If we act in a cold, unfeeling manner towards people like Patric, we are no better than they are. They're human beings and shouldn't be discarded because their brains don't function like ours do.
Most sociopaths mask and get married everyday. People with personality disorders stay married for many reasons
@RachelLWolfe  I suppose I can't take my dad at his word when he says he hates kids, though?
@yourworstfan  there you go again, putting words in my mouth that I never said. What is it with you? Please go and re-read what I actually did say. I thought it was pretty clear, but let me try to make it more so. Your father is your father. He is not Patric Gagne. They are not one and the same. Just because your father didn't like kids doesn't mean she feels the same way.  If she didn't like her kids, she'd probably divorce her husband and walk away from her family altogether. She stays, though, and makes an effort because she actually does care.
@RachelLWolfe  I don't care to read more of what you said. I didn't say my dad was her, and I'm not sure where you got that idea.   I was making an analogy. You are, for some reason, insistent that people who have shallow emotions really feel much more deeply than they say they do. I don't know why and I don't care. I'm done with you.
@yourworstfan  why do you persist to put words in my mouth that I never said?? Serious question. Since you're "done with" me (😂😂), though, it doesn't matter. Grow up.
 @kittykitteh3747   You would want someone at the core of your life who is devoid of emotion when they look at you?  I had parents like that, I have experience growing up with people like that.  Most of them don't get the help they need, and they can be capable of unspeakable acts that no one has mentioned here.  The children in my family really suffered.  The other parent suffered.  Your comment was intended to sound noble, but the reality is a different thing altogether.
 @yourworstfan   The commenter asking for clarification didn't make them a sociopath.
​ @kittykitteh3747  Why don't people get this?? lol She *does not* care about the experience of "hurt" in someone else. She cares about the consequences it has on the lifestyle she wants. You're not discovering an unseen quality, you're projecting from a place of nievity and ignorance. She would even agree with that.
 @dominicharlow747 you are straight up not listening to her if you draw the conclusion that she, like a polar bear, would just go about her day if she KILLED SOMEONE?! What do you mean? She went out of her way to make sure she wouldn’t do disruptive things that actually harmed people by doing disruptive things that didn’t harm anyone (such as breaking into a house without stealing anything). She pretty obviously did not like that she stabbed that little girl with a pen and also, that kinda seems to be the only actually really harmful thing she has done?? Correct me if I’m wrong but that’s the only instance I can find (I will admit though, I’ve not watched the whole video yet so it could come up later but it doesn’t seem like it) She obviously wanted to do better, to be better. Maybe that’s what makes us human? Idk. I kinda think any blanket statement of what makes us human is doomed to have some very weird implications. It’s just not productive to try to define humanness in such a simple way. And saying someone is less than human is very degrading and imo mean, even though you’re saying that you mean it with love and respect. Kinda feels like when Christians call being gay a sin but that they love and respect them
​@dominicharlow747  I thought everyone felt the same way about jail. That's a little surprising to me honestly.
 @dominicharlow747 u do realise your comment is extremely unempathetic right? A bit ironic
 @dominicharlow747 she CAN feel though. That was the main point of the video. It may take more effort to do so for CERTAIN feelings but she can still do it. Plus feeling is not the sole determining factor to the way you act. There are plenty of times where I have ACTED happy and done happy things even when I have not felt happy and I’m sure you’ve done the same, just like how she has done empathetic things (like paying for the persons groceries) even when she didn’t feel empathetic
 @dominicharlow747  i guess there's also a  difference as sociopaths will never snap at their mother because that's mostly a reaction from being frustrated and overwhelmed. Decisions sociopaths make, most often lack an uncontrolled variable's influence (emotions) so they can be considered "logical" and "rational" (even if their logic makes no sense to neurotypical). If every decision made can be rationalised there's no reason to feel guilt or remorse.
 @dominicharlow747  being anti-social and asocial is very different. A sociopath can be part of the "village", they don't feel the need to isolate themselves, they mostly just don't understand social etiquette because they feel very differently than neurotypical people. Also a sociopath is capable of love, like the women in the video said, she is just not capable of doing and showing it the way NT people do. Btw you do sound ableist, because saying that sociopath are not on the same "level of humanity" as you is, again, dehumanizing, and trying to justify it by saying "it doesn't matter, they won't feel hurt" is the same as mutilating a paraplegic and saying "its okay, they can't feel their legs anyway", it is disrespectful regardless.
⁠@sophie-ef4wqNo, sociopaths do act impulsively. Increased impulsiveness is actually a symptom. They do snap at people and can have uncontrolled behavior. Sociopaths do feel frustrated and overwhelmed. She just described how frustration would lead to her acting out. Sociopaths have emotions. They lack empathy. They are not more logical than other people, they just have a different way of thinking and processing emotions, because they do not naturally identify with other people’s feelings.
@sophie-ef4wq Sociopathy is much more than a lack of understanding of social etiquette. They lack the instinct to care about the well being of other people.
Don't forget that sociopaths are toxic, pathological liars, manipulative and charming. Even though she made her sociopathy seem mild, but she's called a sociopath for a reason. Be careful.  This one is smart.
@JustEndah  Oh, I do not ignore they have these tendencies, nor that one should be cautious with them, yet that doesn't mean all sociopaths manifest all, nor to a high degree; it's a spectrum. Those capable of transforming themselves (not many, I fear) would still have low or zero empathy (I've no illusions about that), and their decisions may still be informed by a calculating or manipulative mindset. But they may not be necessarily destructive.   Also, I wouldn't call anything she described her initial tendencies "mild". They were pretty serious before she decided to take action.  You know, they may not have empathy, but understanding and accepting how impulsive and callous they can be, as well as how self-destructive it can be for them, can also be great stimuli to act within the lines of what society deems reasonable behaviour.
 @manuandrade2484   do you have some of its traits? This is pure curiousity, not an attack.  You may opt not to answer if you don't want to.
Well having a father in the music business will give you a good head start on things. Imagine if her father had been less adept in business how much she would have to learn on her own.
 @JustEndah  Not really, I don't, but I have an uncle who does and so I know exactly what they're capable of. Yet I can separate myself from that experience and judge their potential without bias.
Can you be serious? Sociopathy is an advantage, in general. The severe cases may end up in prison. Most end up rich.
She still doesn’t accept what truly happened when she stabbed the other girl.
I stopped going to therapy because emotional reactions from people make me feel judged. I'd love a clinical, analytical and cold person as a therapist.
The reason I've never stuck to therapy is because them being overly empathetic made me uncomfortable. Despite the fact I'm a highly empathetic person.
 @kayleighmaria8618  I was the same. If you're in therapy to explore your own thoughts, feelings and behaviours, having the therapist throw in their own emotional response into the mix is distracting. With low self-esteem and high empathy hearing the therapist's emotional response made me prioritise how the therapist might be feeling over how I was or should be feeling. OP sounds like they wanted counselling rather than CBT therapy.
Personally, I prefer therapists who are very matter-of-fact and view things from a logical point of view so we can reach a solution much fater.
I, on the other hand, don't care so much about emotional reactions and instead want solutions. But I would not want my therapist to be a sociopath. Not just because after hearing this I trust them even less.
Getting empathy and emotional reactions are for friends in my opinion. Getting rational and logical reactions is something I expect from my therapist.
​ @ok7000  I like a good mix of both. Practical and analytical but still sensitive
@ Makes sense. Sometimes you need a healthy balance of both.
I wouldn’t trust her to provide me with good coping mechanisms or guidance on how to handle social issues. She doesn’t feel anything like a normal person. You can usually trust that a therapist can at least understand you in the sense that they, too, have feelings and know what it’s like to be where you are. Someone with no empathy has no human experiences, only sociopathic experiences.
Opposite here. I don't want their feelings and judgement clouding the diagnosis and treatment. I know a married couple who are both psychiatrists and they say that people often find it difficult to express "all" of their thoughts and feelings for fear of being judged as a bad person.
 @kwooooo  Would this mean that only people with OCD can treat those with OCD, and only those with Autism can treat people with Autism? I have found therapists don't really understand my experience and because of that they can be unhelpful.
yeah that was a bad take clinically from her. I do want my Primary Care doctor to like me lol
 @cultreader9751  you would likely still attribute emotional reactions to a cold therapist because of your own insecurities. so eventually their clinical, analytical approach would just be categorized as an emotional response.
 @kwooooo  yeah its like wikipedia as a therapist, i could just google the things you would tell me lady if you're not going to take the time to actually empathize with me lmao. all these nerds who say they want a cold therapist are just telegraphing their weird fear of intimacy to the general public.
Well, as an empathic person I do comprehend your point but I guess expecting people who lack empathy to grasp the importance of it is like expecting someone blind from birth to appreciate having a sight or enjyoing colors. Still, if  people who lack empathy are able to emulate socially appropriate and professional behaviour working as therapists it may be useful to some people. I suppose such therapist may have it easier while dealing with patients who have to face some extremely horrid life experience like extreme forms of violence, wartime trauma or something like it what in cases of therapists with normal empathy levels can have significant negative impact on the mental health of the therapist.
This was my thought that most likely ppl I know does like reassurance and empathy and feelings from their therapist. I’ll go even further by saying typical humans expect to be met with emotions when telling story, they also relate better if they feel accepted= liked
Yeah, that’s interesting but this isn’t good. These people need to be separated from polite society. I don’t care the reasons why these people are this way. I don’t care that they can’t help it. I just don’t want anyone like this near me, my kids, or even in my community. And it’s totally normal and healthy to feel the way I feel. Find out who else is like this and make sure society is protected by these people.
Thats interesting. Ive always struggled with therapists who reacted emotionally in therapy because i struggle to feel my emotions vs felling what im told to feel.
​ @kwooooo Sociopathic individuals are still human!!! But its fair for you to feel that you need more genuine felt empathy in therapy.
I don't want my therapist to have emotional reactions or try to comfort me, I want them to be a bit more clinical and offer solutions to my problems. However, I don't really want a therapist who doesn't really understand empathy and emotion either lol. I think there is a level of healthy disconnection that is healthy for mental health workers but there is also a level of mental disorder that is a hindrance to helping. Like I would be a terrible therapist personally for sure, but I'd like my professionals to be less mentally disordered and disabled than me lol.
I feel like solid therapists need a bit of empathy and a bit of reserved’ness of a poker face, while shelving any guilt, shame, remorse, and fear so that they can properly help the client.   You want to feel they humanize you, but also not causing you to do the mental work of laboring their emotions they are projecting onto you, which is bad as a therapist and actually screams they need their own therapy 😂
She is helpful to people with her condition and herself. She actually stated that.
​ @cultreader9751  I've had both sides. The ones that help are the ones that feel empathetic. If they are having a reaction that makes me feel judged they are not being empathetic, though they may be trying and may be able to empathize better with somebody else. You do have to find the right fit in various ways. But I seriously doubt that somebody who says "my job isn't to like you it's to help you" isn't going to make me feel understood, which is really important, and there's a decent chance I'd feel judged by such a person anyway.
The OP is right; we all have different needs. I wish more therapists initiated open discussions (upfront and during therapy) about interpersonal communication preferences and different therapy modalities. *I* didn't know I had cptsd from childhood trauma, and kept ending up with "blank slate" therapists whose lack of empathy or input actually set me BACK by evoking the lack of attunement in my childhood.  😟  I know now that therapists staring at me with no expression as I shared vulnerable experiences was triggering Emotional Flashbacks to growing up in Childhood Emotional Neglect (CEN) with an unempathic narcissistic, alchoholic, depressive mother (and with a similar lack of constructive guidance or tools). 😰 I was hardwired to be hypervigilant to every flicker of emotion on my mother's (and by extension every person's) face for SAFETY, brainwashed that I'm inherently bad and need to constantly adjust myself to be more acceptable to others, gaslighted that my emotions and perceptions were wrong, and programmed that I'm not ALLOWED to validate my own feelings, thoughts, reality, etc. Of course emotionless "blank slate" therapists felt unsafe and anti-helpful to me!   It took a LOT of healing for me to get to the point that I can honestly not care what someone thinks of me (huzzah! 😀🏋), and I'm so glad that along the way I realized that I can choose to not allow people into my life (including therapists) who trigger me or just lack expressive empathy and attunement. Consciously giving myself what I missed out on in childhood feels good! :face-red-heart-shape: And I think the reprieve from constant triggering was pivotal in giving myself the emotional space to get in touch with MY feelings and inner wisdom about what works best for me or not. Healing rocks! 😃💃🤸🌈🌿🤓😻😄🍀💖
Same. I know a doctor who may be a sociopath who likes the job and prestige but doesn't care about ppl dying especially if they're old and sick bc they're going to die soon anyway. That's crazy to me. I'm not saying that she would do in the same but caring fields need actual caring even if just to make patients feel heard and understood. Sure, she can fake it but I think it would be apparent. That she downplayed her criminality shows that she's not above massaging the truth to push her agenda or support her worldview. I don't think she's even doing it on purpose and that's so dangerous to me. Even with all her training and experience she would have never mentioned stealing cars unless confronted. What else has she done? Maybe not murder but what else?
You probably would not realize that her reactions weren’t totally authentic. So, she might actually be effective. A therapist would not likely self disclose their personal diagnosis to a client.
Came here to say this. As someone who is neurodivergent and rarely was shown empathy as a child. I appreciate her honesty, just don’t believe in her methodology for the entire population.
 @kayleighmaria8618  But how could she be a good therapist if she has no empathy, can’t grasp or comprehend what her patient go through, and if she “gets off” of on hurting others like she said in the video, most likely she won’t want to help the patient and enjoy seeing them in emotional distress. I don’t think this woman practices, she just wanted to study psychology to understand her mind better.
@Gmhfseyhb  I don't think you necessarily need empathy to be a good therapist, it depends what the patient is looking for. I don't want empathy from a stranger that I'm paying for. I want them to analyse me and my brain and tell me how to deal with issues. I know my issues are sad or painful, I don't need to see someone else suffering from them, I just want a clinical answer. But some people do want empathy, and that's ok. Everyone's different.
 @kwooooo  "Someone with no empathy has no human experiences, only sociopathic experiences." yet you are principled enough regarding this to the point of lacking empathy to completely dehumanize a human being... the irony 😂
Personally, I'd want a therapist to just help me. I'm not looking for a friend. The therapist I had was empathetic and professional but I couldn't help feeling like he was aware of my vulnerabilities and perhaps might judge me. I saw a cardiologist once who was very matter of fact and he's one of the best doctors I've met. I'm not saying that works for everyone but as someone who's super sensitive and overthinks, it would be a relief to know someone who just wants to fix the problem or concern.
She's right though, most people are too vain, too focused on themselves to see that their problems aren't unique and she's probably helped more patients than you could imagine with your exact problem, because that's her job she sees patients everyday. You really are there to fix your problems, not to make friends. You really think she's gonna make friends with her thousands of clients she's seen over many many years?
I'm autistic and think the same as she does with this, I just want a therapist to understand what I'm saying and help me with what I need, I don't care enough about them to worry if they judge me or not, I don't know them.
Lack of criminal record only means that you were never caught, not that you didn't engage in the criminal activities / behaviors
Me before watching this: maybe I'm a sociopath? Me while watching this: oh, probably not.
The effect of sociopaths running our organisations, societies and technologies is catastrophic for the rest of us. That is a conversation that needs to be had.
I have a low affect child and this interview was everything I needed (ok not everything). Thank you to everyone involved. [edit:] Loved the book too, very honest and your editor was correct, it needed the epilogue
The way she describes things about dopamine and doing certain things is so similar to ADHD except with ADHD u feel everything and need the dopamine rush its like having more a sensitivity to feelings than them being dulled.
One thing that stand out to me is she multiple times said "I wasn't destructive" when she broke in homes, when she stole cars, etc.. That to me is very weird thing to say, she is downplaying. Is this also a part of sociapath behavior ? She still doesn't see it is destructive to some one. Even though she didn't break stuff, she still made a lot of impact with those actions.
Late diagnosed sociopath here  For the first almost 25 years of my life, my therapists/psychiatrists and me myself were convinced my being "different" was because of my unusually troubled childhood. Son of an affair, which got found out before i was born, alcohol and drug abuse in pregnancy, my mother then finding a new  - very violent - guy with an alcohol problem we lived with for 8 years and that she had 2 more children with, who i as a kid also acted out on - physically and psychologically then when i was 10, i got taken away from home to live in a "foster home for troubled children" kind of thing, there just locked myself in a room for most of the 4 years i was there, spending my time learning instruments, drawing, programming, and when i was forced to do something where i had to interact with people because what i was doing "wasnt healthy", i chose soccer, and hyperfixated on that as i did on the other things - to an unhealthy degree. Genius level intellect at school, horrible behavior and constant trouble with other students and teachers.  this all to say, ive been misdiagnosed with other disorders which could explain away some of my behavior, but none really fit. then, after i did something i dont think i should talk about and went to jail, i had another assessment and the psychiatrist who happened to be a diagnosed sociopath saw what was actually going on.   I have since come to understand myself and what makes me different from most people, and integrated back into society well. Sociopathy needs to be studied more so cases get identified earlier. Thank you for this video.
I hope people don’t take this video the wrong way and lower their guard against sociopaths because this woman actually took the time to analyze what was wrong with her and was effective in countering her destructive behavior. Most sociopaths, in fact a huge majority of them don’t even believe there’s anything bad or wrong with their behavior. Very few of them will ever try to understand, much less address this behavior.  I understand why this woman feels like the condition is stigmatized, but there’s a reason for it. Until actual proper research is done into the condition and how to address and mitigate it, people should try to stay away from sociopaths. You can’t fix them even if you want to, unless they want to fix themselves. And most of them WILL ruin your life if you don’t keep far enough away.
Ok, here's the thing. (warning: long and triggering post ahead)   As a psychiatrist, it is such a hard line to tread diagnosing someone as a sociopath or a psychopath without risking the entire therapeutic relationship because even sociopaths feel offended when you call them sociopaths. They would rather be labelled autistic or borderline personality disorder than be called a sociopath. In most cases, to get treatment on the way, I'll go with whatever label they feel most comfortable with, even though the treatment they receive may be suboptimal due to a misdiagnosis.   The entire health system treats the individual differently when they see the label of a 'sociopath' on their file. As a healthcare provider, you have to be cocksure of yourself to do that to someone. It is a death sentence sometimes, and I almost have to feel no guilt (aka be a sociopath myself) to be dishing out these diagnoses; therein lies the dilemma in mental health. You'd get a lot more sympathy for autism than you would for BPD than you would for sociopathy. Oftentimes, we rely on our colleagues to read between the lines when reading our reports. But you'd never know who you'd meet at the clinic that day.   Sometimes, just because a mental health diagnosis is accurate, doesn't mean it's helpful.   Another thing she didn't mention is the factor of intelligence. Generally speaking, high-IQ sociopaths are articulate and have better impulse control. The opposite is true for low-IQ sociopaths, who are overrepresented in prison populations. A high-IQ sociopath will seek help from a therapist before things get out of hand, while a low-IQ sociopath will turn to far more destructive and maladaptive coping strategies, like violent or sex crimes. Therefore, this isn't just a question of diagnosis; it is also a matter of context.  EDIT: Some people may wonder, if misdiagnosing someone, for the sake of protecting them from an inhumane health system, is unethical. These are people who behave like a mindless cog in a giant faceless system until they suffer injustice themselves.   There isn't a SINGLE DOCTOR I know, who doesn't fudge or embellish patient records, for the sake of helping their patients access care. They get in trouble sometimes, I know I do, but we all keep doing it.   As far as I know, calling someone a 'sociopath' on file does nothing good for them, as opposed to calling them neurodivergent or depressed. They might access help quicker if they are depressed, in which case, it might pay to label them as depressed rather than calling them a sociopath, which will only garner scepticism and stigma.  EDIT 2: For those who think they have ASPD, or sociopathy, and would like to seek help, here are some tips.   You need to understand what 'help' actually means. Currently, there is no evidence-based treatment that has successfully increased prosocial behaviour in ASPD. In fact, some studies even suggest that teaching ASPD individuals empathy only helps them weaponize it against others. The evidence for CBT or other forms of therapy is also extremely limited.   Like autism, there isn't a 'cure' per se to ASPD. An autistic individual might wear noise-cancelling headphones to avoid sensory issues, and an ASPD individual might channel their destructive urges into something more productive. See a therapist to openly discuss strategies that can relieve tension associated with masking, and educate your friends and family about your disorder so they don't get caught off guard.   Many high-functioning CEOs, ruthless bankers, police officers, firefighters, and other high-risk professionals have ASPD, even if they don't know it. ASPD individuals process risk and reward differently, and they usually thrive in autonomous positions and high-stakes environments. A huge part of relieving tension and preventing misunderstanding is to avoid dealing with clueless neurotypical people in general. You either educate the people around you, or you avoid them altogether.   ASPD is the most stable personality disorder across populations and cultures, more so than BPD, OCPD, and other personality disorders. This suggests that ASPD confers an evolutionary advantage to a group by allowing them to make difficult decisions that a purely neurotypical group couldn't. ASPD individuals are NOT likeable, and if they appear that way, it's because they are manipulating you. But they are not there to be liked, that's not their modus operandi.   ASPD individuals can be good providers, just don't expect them to meet your emotional needs. They might be fantastic colleagues, but they don't don't make good friends. Stop seeing them as how you'd like them to be and start appreciating them as they are. Use them for what they are built for. Afterall, they are using you too.   If you want to get a formal diagnosis, stay away from the public health system, and just see a private therapist or psychiatrist. That way, you can keep your records confidential. Alternatively, you can forgo this process and just go by gut feeling. Most people who believe they have ASPD, are usually right about themselves.   If you ever find yourself talking to the likes of me either through the health or judicial system, well, you ****ed up. You weren't very smart. I'll do my best to help you navigate the system, but pitting your destructive urges against the system is a surefire way to end yourself. So turn on your charm, play your cards right, and get out of the system ASAP. You want to live a better life? Remember what I've said above and start working.   Hope this helps.
I experienced a lot of apathy as a teenager...up until I had kids. My kids made me care about EVERYTHING. It's hard to even imagine what a lifetime of that apathy would be like. This woman is incredibly brave to openly tell us her experiences as a diagnosed sociopath...on the internet, for the whole world to see. I admire her for that bravery. For her courage in being completely open and transparent about her experiences in life.
A lot of what Patric says here is very relatable to me, in that she describes thinking (as a child) "helping is supposed to feel good, but it doesn't and I don't know why."  It sounds a lot like my experience of AD(H)D. Helping makes me feel very good, but you know what doesn't? Completing tasks. I finish emptying the dishwasher or loading a van or writing a paper, and I don't get a dopamine hit and only rarely a sense of pride. Instead, if it was a task that was stressing me out, maybe I'll feel a release of tension, a removal of a negative stimulus. In fact, I often have to use my overactive desire to help others to compensate, to find the motivation to complete "simple" tasks.  Independently of how relatable a lot of this was, she is so eloquent, and it's fascinating to hear what the inside of someone else's brain is like. It also makes me laugh when she intentionally changes her phrasing to be more honest, at the cost of some of her masking. I've never before heard someone say "I wanted to help me, and... maybe others like me."
I would be interested in how race/class/gender plays into the level of sociopaths who do end up with a criminal record. I couldn't help hearing her explain what she did (break into houses, steal cars) and wonder how much harder those behaviors could be for someone of a different race/gender/class. For example.
I've had the grave misfortune of dating several legitimate clinical sociopaths, and they all engaged in cheating and lying in the same way she describes breaking into homes and stealing cars. They had no logical explanation for it, but they did it as a matter of compulsion. They felt a sense of elation when they were telling lies or keeping secrets. And they would get seriously aggressive if ever accused of lying, unless you had 100% proof. And once you had 100% proof, the attitude was "Yeah, okay, you're right, I wasn't being honest. Can we move past this now?"
She seems deadpan most of the video, but when she's telling about her mischief moments she seems to get excited. I think it's fascinating that a sociopath can be self-aware. Im trying to imagine how it must feel like to be her, but I just cant.
Interesting and low-key terrifying how even after earning a doctorate and being a therapist, she still doest not understand why normal people do kind stuff. Not because they want to feel "oh I'msuch a wonderful person" dopamine rush. It's done because of empathy.
"Does my therapist like me? Well, would you wonder that of your oncologist? Do you wonder that of your primary care physician? Probably not." Um, Yes. Yes, I do. If they're going to be knowing intimate details about my life and body, I want to know if they like me, or if they dislike me and are going to give me shoddy care as a result.
When she said that she was masking and that if she didn't, her affect would be more 'flat'. I really wanted her to drop the mask and let us see what lay beneath.
I gotta say I disagree with her about guilt. We evolved guilt so that we won’t do things that we shouldn’t do. We avoid the negative emotion by avoiding the act that will cause it. Antisocial behavior is harmful to others and to the individual because we are a social animal. We have to cooperate with others in order to survive and thrive. Guilt helps us do that.
I live next to a sociopath. Devious, destructive, manipulative and no visible concern for other people's distress about sums him up. He tries to befriend people so that he can can get closer to them to control them, but he's not a very bright sociopath, so he doesn't have lasting success. Most people soon enough see through him.
“It’s not my job to like you…”  Well at least she was honest 😂 I found it hard to understand the lack of empathy, like my brain isn’t braining by that experience 🧠🤔  EDIT: Since a lot of people are missing my reply;  1.) Her statement made me laugh, so “daddy, chill! ✋🏻” 2.) I’m not saying every person who does work in healthcare has to feel every second of every interaction with every person they come in contact with. You can still show empathy to people without it having to consume you, so not sure how some of y’all in the comment section jumped to that. 3.) Continuation of #2, I personally just don’t relate to her experience. If you as a person do, like cool for you. I’m fully aware that as she explains herself, everyone is different & experience emotions differently. I just expressed that it was hard for me to understand how she experiences the world, which it might be hard for someone else who isn’t me to understand how I experience the world. So y’all can just simmer down, good God. 🙄
 @lw498  I get that, it was in reference to the two versions of the PCL (PCL/PCLD) & the medical requirement to have a criminal record in order to take the PCL as explained @ 15:24. As she correctly asserts her admission is the only proof of her criminal versatility.  Basic logic easily shows despite their misassociation to one another, there is no way there can be an actual cognitive correlation.  Criminal records are applied according to the laws established BY the governing forces, whereas sociopathy deals with the regulation of emotions used in relation TO criminal behavior. Or In other words; People can only determine the legality of something not the morality of something.  Laws change, morals don't
The two are often conflated due to the disproportionately higher propensity to engage in criminal activities. The universe is inherently lazy nothing exerts more effort than is necessary, this is commonly referred to as the law of conservation of energy. On its face, It is easier to pollute than to properly dispose of environmentally hazardous material, to steal your resources than obtain my own, and far simpler to kill someone & absolutely guarantee their compliance, then attempt to force / convince them to think / act in a particular manner. It is morality that prevents the typical person from pursuing the path of least resistance in all these instances. Be it empathy for others, Ethics of ill attained gains, or a general sense of wrongdoing, there are associated feelings of remorse that accompanies types of decisions in a neurotypical person. However these are replaced in the sociopath's mind with a simple probability matrix incorporating the limitations placed upon them in the event they are caught (Imprisonment or the inability to effectively deploy deceptive methods and tactics in the future). Therefore, if there is even a modicum of possibility, they are able to successfully "get away" with their actions, the sociopath is exponentially more inclined to engage in criminal activities.
Yes, but a crime always leaves a victim. The rest is just policy to generate revenue for the state.
Look up borderline personality disorder. Some of the symptoms overlap and can be similar.  The good news is there's help available.  Do what you must to make your life the best it can be.
Indeed. Look at what is happening in the world right now. This is what happens when people put greed and selfishness over everything else.
Low affect can be difficult for all involved. Distinguishing between things like ADHD, autism (high emotion, low reveal), & sociopathy, as well as other causes not as prevalent, can be a taxing journey. I wish the best of luck finding the most authentic life path!
Low affect can be a child who finds the "world" exhausting and reserves their feelings for times that REALLY matter.
Um, low affect isn’t sociopathy. I hate parents that try to diagnose their kids with cancer when they have the sniffles. You’re doing the same psychologically.
@ you have no idea about me, my child or the context here. For all you know I’m a sufferer of the condition, have a PhD on the subject and my child has now grown to adulthood. Maybe stop judging people on the internet without any information.
 @Author-dad-veteran  as someone with autism and a low affect, I relate that our environment can be exhausting and contribute to this, but also having a parent who is genuinely interested in learning about/understanding their child makes a huge difference
Low affect child can be high intellect and very emotionallly stable child. Chances are you should exploe intellectual, artistic maybe manual or sport interests of your child to get it engaged using it's theory of mind, so ability to comprehend things intellectually to get it engaged and to find a common language with it. Speaking from my experience with kids on autism spectrum. They tend to be low affect about things outside of their narrow scope of interests. But what they are passionate about tend to make they intensly engaged. It just takes trial and error to figure out what fuels their interest in each particular case.
Furthermore, if you had a PHD and also have the condition, how would this provide any insight to you?
 @suksikuuseen  Because his PhD is in Horticulture or Biblical Studies or Plasma Physics? Because he's never been able to articulate his feelings or lack thereof as clearly as this woman? Because hearing about someone else's experiences has broadened his knowledge?  There's plenty of answers to your questions.
Your child can absolutely care for you, just have to accept that it might look a little different.
 @suksikuuseen  i was being accused of knowing nothing and diagnosing my child... by someone who didn't know my knowledge level or what was actually happening. I was just pointing out i might be an expert on this subject (i'm not) and people shouldn't make judgements without any information.
We are fundamentally neuro chemical machines. Thankfully, as self-aware machines, we can take our knowledge of our function and modify in certain manners the way our machine works if we choose to. E.g. we have a bad habit, we can choose to replace the bad habit with a better habit.
I am a medicated ADHD person with obsessive-compulsive tendencies, and you're so right about how we feel emotions so, so strongly.
wait so im NOT just a hypersensitive basket case it's actually the chemicals????  -an add'er diagnosed 20+ yrs ago
yeah, I was thinking that when she talked about how she doesn't get a dopamine hit for doing stuff that's good/productive. I was like, hey, same! But I don't get a dopamine hit for doing bad things, either!
It's not the same.  She's describing boredom alleviation and lack of impulse control.    She has a damaged or non working amygdala and cannot feel so she does extreme things to feel anything.  What you guys seen to be describing is an oversensitivity.
 @Leezl41  would have been better copying and pasting my comment , i know its not the same boredom alleviation and lack of impulse control are whats similar to ADHD. And a oversensitivity to feeling rather than a low affect.
I felt this! I have been diagnosed as ADHD since the age of 12. Started to think I was a sociopath but then I realized "Wait, I am VERY emotional and feel terrible when I harm others." Quite a few other things are totally the same, though. A lot of it is the study of social interaction, the masking and/or social manipulation to appear "normal".
It's so hard to describe, I wouldn't even call it "feeling everything" cause my brain easily shuts down when things get overwhelming (and I get overwhelmed easily)  Some feelings are very intense. Others feel like they should be stronger. It is a whole mess.  When I'm happy I'm sad too, when I'm angry at someone I feel sorry for them and bad for feeling that way  When I feel jealousy I also feel proud of the other, sometimes the other way around (and I hate that)  It's hard
 @Leezl41  Don't be sorry Leez. Talking about specifics like boredom alleviation and lack of impulse control is in no way copying and pasting a general statement about "dopamine and doing certain things". That was an unnecessary attack. (Caveat: Unless your edit was to change what you said because it was copying/pasting lol). Thank you for your contribution to the discussion.
Any other's ADHD brain dissociate like mad to cope? What she describes reminds me of being dissociated - very similar to how it can look and feel. I wouldn't be surprised if a lot of people relate to sociopathy from experiences with dissociation, depression or shock.
yes I also wondered how you distinguish between these as many ADDH folk have same characteristics
@ yeah, I don't have excessive emotions or anything. I wouldn't say it's "feeling everything." I just get stressed really easily because EVERYTHING feels like it should be priority number one, so I can never relax. And I never get a positive feeling when I complete something or do something good... I just immediately move onto the next thing I haven't done and tell myself I'm a terrible person for not having completed it yet 😆
Having both adhd and being on the scociopath spectrum is a ride. All the lack of focus and memory, and the lack of deep emotions. Then there is the emotional overstimulation and no ‘normal’ moral compass.
I thought this too!!! Made me feel fairly connected with her.
 @kylebrady3651  she's also talking crap. The medical model is a crock
 @Beth-ux6jn as an ADHD-er  and empath, I also totally dissociate to cope and either have too many emotions or none at all (I call it robot mode ever since I was in high school). Or I connect too much with other people’s emotions in order to either mask or hide my own. Maybe all neurodivergent people just have a weird relationship with emotions and how we perceive them. However, my sister is more like this lady and I don’t think she feels anything at all. She just manipulates with no remorse but doesn’t see that she isn’t a victim. It’s very strange. I don’t think she’s a bad person on purpose - she just can’t feel the same way that other people can and she doesn’t understand how she is hurting people through her manipulation, and if she does understand, she doesn’t care. It’s so odd. I’ve never met anyone else like that but it’s such a strange type of neurodivergence. I guess we both chase a dopamine hit of some sort, but mine is very personal and I hurt myself, whereas hers is more of an outward hit that hurts someone else. We have the same goal I suppose, just different tactics.
It's almost like we get extra dopamine the opposite way (by doing something nice for someone, attributing to their sense of happiness/peace). That can pose it's own challenges sometimes of course (for exampling how to balance that with your own needs and feelings). But it must be very difficult if that doesn't feel intuitive, life loses a lot of it's shine I think...🙏
​ @simplystreeptacular being hypersensitive to emotions, or struggling with emotional regulation is hard for a lot of us. Prefrontal cortex is literally smaller snd underdeveloped and it makes certain things more difficult, such as decision making and thinking through consequences
Dopamine addicts out here giving themselves adhd. Quit the social media, get offline, eat a clean diet. Get rid of everything draining your dopamine 😂
True. For example, someone was at home, and she didn't know... What would have happened then? If they got too spooked at seeing her there that they end up hurting themselves, or hurting her, or worse?
@woolflower8316  also if someone has broken into your house,  it takes the "safe-ness" out of the safe place.  Your home is safe,  and when some one breaks in you don't feel that safe anymore. The impact is on a mental level and thus harms the other. She's completely ignoring this fact.
​ @OneTheAndOnlyOne  Yes, that would be very alarming for me. I wouldn't be able to be at my home and feel at peace knowing that someone broke in and did who knows what. I'd be paranoid.
I was also struck by her insinuation that all her crimes were 'non destructive', and also by the fact she later mentioned in the interview that 'we' only knew she'd committed any crimes at all because she was fully disclosing them to us. I think her intention was to extract trust or praise from the audience with that comment, but the implication seemed that perhaps she had also enjoyed a lot of 'destructive' crimes and just had the good sense not to disclose them!
 @silverbirch-youtube I very much doubt that she is seeking ‘praise or trust’ from her audience! She doesn’t care enough for this! She is just sharing the insight and motivation for her undesirable acts! This video is primarily for education!
She's not downplaying, she's being literal. She's saying that on an objective/material level, she wasn't destructive. You're sitting here trying to project the concept of emotional damage onto somebody who literally has a personality disorder that struggles with that. It's not manipulative, that's just how she thinks.
 @silverbirch-youtube  it seemed like when she was saying we "only know because [she's] telling us" that it was less in a general sense and more that that is a criteria for sociopathy and she wanted to change how we look at sociopathy from a behavior based model to a psychology based model, ie what is happening in someone's head to make them do this.  The test she references has a few criteria that are just about convictions or related things.  As she noted she wasn't caught, so these criteria wouldn't apply even though she was acting out criminally.
She could maybe intellectualize the effects based on learning about it, but seems like she wouldn’t inherently understand how violating someone’s boundaries would have a negative impact on them emotionally. She can’t relate. And yes, very weird thing to say.
What? No. Her intentions were not to steal, break, harm, etc. She was literally not being destructive. She was making a point that it was purely for the feeling of doing something outside of normal, not to harm. What are you talking about?
Another thing that stands out to me is that she decided to have kids.
Well, she said early on that one of the markers of sociopathy is being extremely manipulative. And that question, "Wouldn't you want to help a child?" What a loaded question; and extremely manipulative.  Breaking into homes, stealing cars ... All involve violating a person's boundaries. Violating an other person's private space or possessions. If she just wanted to be someplace she didn't belong, she could have gone to a foreign country,  or tramping through the woods. EXCEPT, those are public spaces. There is no intimate, personal violation of another.  Great communicator, charming, pleasant, and - dealing from a different deck. I don't think the average person can really understand how the mind of a true psychopath or sociopath works.
Yeah, I think she just isn't capable of getting how it is still destructive to those she victimized.
If we're lending credit to the idea of sociopathy/psychopathy, then a sociopath is generally considered to be made by their environment. So yes... it has to do with your troubled childhood, which makes sense. Your environment plays a strong role in forming who you are. It's good to hear that you're doing better now that you understand yourself.
 @majorpwner241  The idea of sociopathy/psychopathy? Those are most definitely real conditions. Also, while environmental conditions can trigger sociopathy, it is heavily impacted by if you have the gene for it or not.
Hard agree. Seeing this video might make people feel like they can understand this disorder better, and make them feel compelled to work to dispel it's "myths". That notion comes from a good place, but it's actually misaligned here, because what you've seen is coming from one of the rare people who've been diagnosed with the disorder, and seems to have been rehabilitated to a large degree. This is not the person most people encounter with such a disorder, and to think that it's something you can combat with knowledge and awareness, is a gross underestimation of the condition.  The woman in this video was successfully rehabilitated, because she came from a family privileged enough to be able to deal with her, and likely low to moderate on the spectrum of sociopathy. Most of these people with this disorder will never be diagnosed, and will use their traits successfully to gain positions of power. They'll never even attempt to stop themselves from seeking out that euphoria that comes from causing someone harm, because there will be no drawback from doing so. You can't understand someone out of having this, or any other dark tetrad disorder. Very few of them are going to come after you with a chainsaw in the middle of the night, rather, they're going to use their intelligence to harm you in ways you won't see coming, and won't be able to stop.   Whatever you take away from this video, don't think it's your responsibility to rehabilitate this condition to others. Leave that to be something debated among the professionals, because you truly don't have a good understanding of how manipulative, and destructive such a person can be. If you meet one, I'd advise you to walk the other way. If you choose not to, I hope you'll be spared the hard lessons I, and many others have had to learn otherwise.
The fact that psychopaths exist completely ruined my faith in God. Nothing skews  the otherwise level playing field amongst human beings like the presence of at least one psychopath among any crowd of 25 or more. They don't play fair. After having a friendship with one, whenever I meet anyone new, that possibility is in the back of my mind. Here, you have one woman who wants to redefine how we treat psychopaths, normalizing psychopaths, wanting us to feel sorry for psychopaths, etc. Dressing nice, acting normal to make us think she is, even though her words describe something different. I am not buying it. The whole condition and the people who have it are a burden to society starting from childhood. Because of the work I am in, I see it daily.  I have done some research, not as much as her, but, that one relationship sent me digging. In older societies, that were more close knit or even tribal, they would simply unalive the psychopath among them. This interview reminds me of tv shows where robots mingle with people, and the robots are made to look superior to and more acceptable than humans. Life with no guilt and no emotions is great! No thank you.
my uncle is a sociopath but he believes everyone else is the problem and he’s the only one who’s right. he’s exhausting and never ever works on himself
This comment is so critical for the general public, who is prone to having goodwill towards a stranger, it needs to be pinned.   Any psychologist would recommend a safe distance from individuals with a personality disorder, due to harmful behaviors. The speaker did the work and developed coping mechanisms to help avoid harming another’s mental, physical or emotional health. Too many, and it only takes ONE, are not inclined, or sense it as beneficial, to do the same.
I was scrolling through the comments, waiting for someone to say this 😅
Exactly. Also, this woman has clearly done a lot of hard work on herself, and probably has not committed abuse and other crimes. Unlike male sociopaths, probably.
She could be lying to make her self seem more innocent. She IS probably lying, because she can. Every time she says something she has done and moderates it by “it was not harming anyone..” Maybe she is lying to avoid people disliking her. I do not believe everything she says. It is not in her interest to be completely honest.
 @mette1245 I agree.  I appreciate the effort here to educate but historically they do not respond to treatment and more importantly, do not seek out treatment.  They just go through life seeking stimulation whether it is positive or negative. There is no filling the dark hole in them.
 @mette1245 Exactly, they’re known for being pathological liars and saying anything to seem “nice” or likeable. It’s frustrating seeing people fall for her act and narrative.
​ @LadyBGoode-gr8wm ​ your comment is chilling.  Dehumanising people based on the way that they experience emotion, regardless of their actions. Describing unaliving them as simple. Claiming that a selected group of children are a burden to society.  Where is the empathy in that? So hypocritical
I’m in the same boat as you but I researched more. I can spot one walking in a crowd now. There are signs in their appearance, body language, and speak.  I grew up Christian, now I struggle with my faith. They will never change.
 @LadyBGoode-gr8wm  She was talking about sociopaths the whole time and barely mentioned psychopaths. I get that the differentiation between both is difficult, there are overlaps etc., but after watching nearly 50 minutes of someone talking about sociopaths your takeaway should not be "Don't trust psychopaths".
 @mette1245  Well, most "normal" people, aka neurotypical, lie whenever they benefit from it, including on TV, in books, on social media, etc. I would not expect her to lie any less than any other human being.  I suspect she might do so more eloquently than others and she would not feel "bad" or as anxious about it, but it's not like lying in itself makes her worse than anyone else.
 @mette1245  100% agree - People with pathological personality disorders crave control and my gut tells me she's just doing this to gain attention, trust, and money. In fact this woman is likely incredibly dangerous seeing that she understand the intellectual aspect of psychology. Moreover, just because she is aware of her compulsions doesn't mean she isn't guilty of all the other toxic behavior tied to personality disorders. Being self aware doesn't mean someone still isn't a dangerous monster.
I don't think it's this black and white, beeing a sociopath or psychopath doesn't make people bad persons.  If I can choose the surgant to do my extremly complicated emergency brain surgery after a horrible crash, me looking like ground meat and on the brink of death:  Give me the Psychopath! I don't need empathy but someone with a steady hand who coldbloodeldly follows the steps no matter what.  A pschopathic surgant will do his job with the same dedication as the empathetic one, that starts to become desperate during surgery because of this unstoppable bleeding and can't go as fast because he needs to put himself together a few times. Why the same dedication? Because saving people who nearly can't be saved makes you an icon and beeing an icon of brain surgery brings a lot of pleasant benefits, it's very well payed and not even emotionally drowning.
 @m4tta  your uncle is my sister /hugz for both of us
All the rational takes are way too far down in the comments.
And there are also a lot of sociopaths who do not get a compulsion to do something destructive.
I'm sorry but this comment is so stupid. Most people who are sociopaths don't know it and most people who others armchair-diagnose as sociopaths aren't sociopaths. How often do you feel people meet someone, learn about their diagnosis and decide to become their friend despite it? It doesn't happen often enough to warrant a warning like this. Telling people to stay away from diagnosed sociopaths after watching a video humanising the condition and explaining how sociopaths aren't inherently violent or destructive towards others is cruel at best.
 @mette1245  That’s exactly what I was thinking every time she mentioned something that made me instinctively want to commend her for recognizing and addressing her harmful behavior. It was always in the back of my mind throughout the whole video that it’s very likely she’s embellishing a lot of her stories to make them sound more acceptable than they were, like claiming she never hurt or wanted to hurt anybody while breaking into houses.
 @alrighttumbleweed4782  I don’t think it’s hypocritical. It’s like that “tolerating the intolerant” fallacy. If a tolerant society tolerates those who are intolerant, they will inevitably cede power to the intolerant and their tolerant society will fall. People who are a danger to society or a group, who will put their own selfish interests before the well-being of their society or humanity are not people you want to keep around.  The same way you should cut ties with a narcissistic or sociopathic family member if you want to live a healthy life. I’m not in favor of outright “unaliving” them, but they do need to be given help, even if by force. You don’t let an infection or a virus live freely in your body, because it will destroy it.
 @evastern231  Your comment makes no sense. There are plenty of people who don’t suffer from those disorders and are able to feel empathy, and they’re perfectly professional. They do just as good of a job as the psychopath in your scenario, and there’s an even argument to be made that they’d do a better job because they don’t want to hurt you and don’t want anything bad to happen to you. A psychopath won’t feel an ounce of regret if he messes up something and it ends up hurting you.
 @potfur_z_bagna  “It’s cruel to say you should stay away from sharks after having watched a video where a shark humanizes the condition and explains how it will hunt and eat you, but are somehow not violent or destructive”.  See how silly that sounds? Sociopaths ARE inherently destructive, and while not always, ARE also very impulsive and violent. Did you not watch the entire video? She literally explains that it’s in their nature.
 @potfur_z_bagna   to be honest, what sets of my alarm is people who selfintroduce as extremly sensitive, extraordinarily empathetic and overall such a kind person, which sadly is not appreciated by all the cruel people who dont get how good of a person they are and take advantage of them, and that's why blablabadmouthing (...but empatheticly I guess)  Another kitchen table diagnosis starting with "n", very poppular and actually way more common, comes to my mind 😅.  Having the reputation to be kind, and thats happens if you actually are kind, makes it obsolet to advertise a selfproclaimed kindness, it all speaks for itself...
 @ivanivanovichrasputin3098  ...sharks are less dangerous than dolphins, also a fact. And now?
Perhaps we should ask why or how such individuals so easily and repeatedly get into positions of power, status and influence in a society that defines itself as 'normal'?
I agree with this that you should always be cautious around sociopaths. Especially since they are good at manipulating people. But I do think we should start looking for it earlier on and earlier age in people. That way if you are able to diagnose them when they're young then they'll be able to actually hopefully figure out how to cope with that diagnosis and their lack of formal emotions and a healthy way before they become extremely toxic and dangerous. But of course it's also really hard to diagnose them when they're young because of the fact that they probably get good at masking
​ @mette1245  she is lying. Just Google her name and see what's out there--Patric Gagne isn't even her real name.
Anybody else notice her forehead? It’s so smooth. Her eyebrows barely move at all. This I think is one of the signs of limited emotional affect. Raising the eyebrows signals a bid for connection with the listener and she clearly doesn’t need much.  Interesting she says that guilt shame and remorse are learned behaviors and that sociopathy can be rehabilitated.
@Brainscape-p8c   most likley it's botox 😅 what woman over 30 you see on any screen ever that has mimik?!  It's very weird in the USA, botox is great but over there people tend to paralyze their forehead completly.
Your attitude is exactly the driving force that adds fuel turning people with sociopathy or borderline sociopathy into total unsalvageable criminals and monsters where by the time they get caught, the damages will be too wide spread and too deep and their issues will be so unsolvable and unmanageable, as a society we will pay the highest price by ignoring or ostracizing them as you suggested.
yeah i get that talking about it can help get treatment but my god this people are bad
​ @potfur_z_bagna  Did my comment get deleted?  People don't have to be friends with sociopaths.   Some people who try to befriend or date sociopaths on purpose harm those sociopaths because they just want to try so hard to "fix them" or use them to feel like they're with a bad boy or bad girl caricature and not a human who needs real help.  It's ok to help warn people to not deal with sociopaths because it is a ton of work, exhausting, and taking a lot of abuse. Some people don't know it's that bad.  Even if a sociopath doesn't harm others, many people are constantly upset at them for not showing feelings or neurotical thinking enough for them and put too high standards on them and their condition.
​ @ivanivanovichrasputin3098  Force is not helping people. That's messed up. Did you mean self defense instead?
​ @annaphallactic  There are also other people with a stage name, such as performers, writers, or content creators. It doesn't mean they're bad. Some people want to protect their privacy or avoid doxxing.  Dove Cameron's real name is Chloe.  Miley Cyrus' real name is Destiny.  They changed their names to nicknames given to them.
​ @evastern231  I don't think it's botox. I think it's because Patric is not emotional like she said. Why can't you think that some women are not emotional? You were missing the point of this video of Patric asking people to accept that some people don't emote much.   If she didn't emote much her whole life then that would decrease wrinkles.  That's why people get botox to reduce moving their face that causes wrinkles.  Some people advice others to not move their face too much to avoid wrinkles.  Btw, some people get botox to counter headaches.   Some old people who took care of themselves don't have wrinkles on their face. Look at 73 yr old Babette Davis and 83 yr old Annette Larkins.
​ @YummyFoodOnlyPlz  I don't think the OP was for not not helping sociopaths, but just advising most regular people who are incapable of helping sociopaths to be careful around them to avoid possible abuse and exhaustion from them.  I'm for helping everyone.  Even Patric admitted she wronged people and not feel remorse, like stabbing a girl with a pencil and trespassing into people's homes.  Unfortunately, many people who befriend or date sociopaths just make sociopaths worse because they don't really care to help them. They just try to hard to "fix them", they get impatient and frustrated with them, or they just use them for a thrill to feel like they're with a "bad boy" or "bad girl". And then discard them when they're done or predictably fed up with the sociopaths.
@user-gu9yq5sj7c  Genes, it's mostly genetic how you age.  Well if she didn't move he face, could be but i f people assume now no face movement is a sign someone is a sociopath or psychopath, half of the woman over 30 are 🤣 ...and it's very uncommon in women...
 @YummyFoodOnlyPlz  Nobody suggested we should ostracize them, just that we should get them the help they clearly need. Keeping people with harmful behaviors away from society and preventing them from causing further harm is not “ostracizing” them. That’s like saying keeping criminals in prison is “ostracizing and alienating” them.
 @ivanivanovichrasputin3098  ok, just keeping people away from society is not ostracizing.  No point in debating if you cannot even string together a coherent thought.
Exactly! So many comments here are saying ‘oh I wish I had her as a mentor.’  Errr okkayyy then good luck ! 🤞 😂🤣😂
 @specialtwice4975 If they get saved then Jesus and the Holy Spirit could help them. Medical/Mental counseling would still be important . Jesus is the light, in Him is no darkness at all. We are all born with a sin nature and that is our dark side.
I personally think they are detached from the divine! Maybe possessed!
 @mette1245 yeah, I mean, like, maybe she’s actually lying about being a sociopath altogether. 😂
Well, you realize she also doesn’t believe there’s anything “bad” or “wrong” with her behavior in the way you mean those words, right? Kinda the whole point of this exploratory exercise is about that, and her path of channeling the feelings she has in non-destructive ways by understanding it cognitively instead of understanding empathetically as would be the typical.
 @evastern231  Despite popular belief, most sociopaths and psychopaths do feel emotions, they can become stressed and anxious, and they are not more “logical” than other people. They have a different way of interacting with emotions and lack a sense of empathy, that is all
 @gabrielamora6265   pretty much the opposite 😅 they don't get stressed just because everything is falling apart and they find themselfs in a hopeless situation, they stay calm when they effed up big time, because there is no anxiety about consequences not for themselfs or others. Psychopathic criminals are even easier to catch than neurotypical ones since they are so careless, because of this lack of anxiety. Sometimes it would be good to get stressed and therefore hurry when the cops are already knocking at the door, but they calmly eat their sandwich or stuff like that instead if running. Sociopaths do have all the emotions you don't need to learn, because learning them is the issue here. Psychopaths are just a bit different, they also can lack of the ability to love for example. It's harder to manage the lack of empathy if you don't love someone. Rewind to the part about their kids, that's well explained.
 @evastern231   She experiences a limited range of emotions, and in different ways, but she feels “pressure” which is similar enough to stress, which makes her act irrationally.  She experiences impulsivity to a greater degree than the average.
This is the first comment I seen under this video that makes any sense. The rest are fools who get taken advantage of by a sociopath
Despite your argument, I find the first half of your speech alarming.  Attenuation of one’s diagnostic stigma is inherently part of your trade.
I imagine, after listening here to this video & reading your trained experience, that SOCIAL, ECONOMIC EXPOSURE also plays a part in the impulse control.  I think back to historical accounts of VILE SOCIAL behaviors by the aristocracy towards ANYONE OTHER than THEIR PEERS or THEMSELVES. Obviously some of this was “learned” “acceptable” behavior, as is known to occur with generational racism, whereby that behavior of social power dynamics happens to never experience an outside experience that may shift that inherited belief;  though, often acts of violence are “normalized” by social hierarchies- we know this to be true in sub-sets of a particular race, often relating to a perceived “lower economic social standing”; so, could this be somewhat applicable to “accepted social behaviors”, I wonder? I’m not sure if I am making myself clear, but I’d be interested in your thoughts if it does make sense. (For instance, this woman acknowledges that her parents led a very “normal”, “socially acceptable”, “economically stable” existence while under her parent’s home, so she was exposed to the benefits of “socially acceptable behaviors” such that she saw SELFISH VALUE by CHOOSING to OPERATE under guidelines which privileged her SURVIVAL, meanwhile, in another home the SAME CHILD might witness NO BENEFITS to following “the social norms/rules/laws”, & so I wonder if this might also shed light on human beings whose characteristics do not “fall into alignment” with the “norms” of society. I think this can be very INTERESTING as it could also be APPLIED to MORALITY, RELIGION, & the CIVILIZED CUSTOMS that one is raised in. I feel like there have been studies with biological twins placed in very different upbringings & their outcomes. Might there be recommended reading along these lines that could be suggested? (In support or denial- I’m interested in both if any.)
So you intentionally misdiagnose a patient, in order to achieve your personal aims regarding their treatment? That is disturbing, unethical and illegal.
Thanks for just outing your self as someone not capable of the job you hold. You're not there to make friends.
I wonder if these people have gone through a mental health journey.  My therapist does that as well, moreso just being careful of the wording she writes on the treatment plan. She'd ask me questions, id ramble on about my thoughts about it, then she'd reword it. Because there are consequences if you write something on the treatment plan. It doesnt even mean you cant discuss things outside the treatment plan.  Its just that, not even being a mental health professional, i know that people out there have their own opinions about their situation. The provider cant just state that the patient is wrong and they are actually a psychopath. They often justify their situation. "Oh, I must have felt good after hurting them cuz they've been so bothersome for a long time and I hid that discomfort. I must not be able to express my uncomfortable feelings very well. I need to gain confidence and learn to speak up about my feelings! Thanks doc, you're so helpful!"   People dont accept these labels easily. They go through all the easier ones. Oh  is some event bothering me? Is it work? Is it this annoying friend? Am i depressed or anxious? Am I bpd? Bipolar? None of them seem right... and as they learn more about themselves and mental health and actually wanting to get better, they might accept those harsher labels.   And that doesnt even work if you're dumb. You dont have the intellectual capacity to understand. Ignorance can come from both rich and poor families.
I had a suspicion that it might be this way. I´ve met somebody who has been diagnosed as autistic, but has ruined my life by deriving pleasure from watching me suffer, lying, faking illness / injuries and trying to be the center of attention all the time. After all these years I still suffer from CPTSD, while said person continues living their life without any reprecussions whaotsoever
⁠​⁠ @odettegibbs2238 I don’t think that person is even a psychiatrist because they said something about “diagnosing” someone w either sociopathy/psychopathy when these aren’t diagnoses. Those terms are antiquated and were replaced with ASPD - antisocial personality disorder many years ago.
Your admission to sugarcoat the diagnosis is even more scary. Ever thought what the people coming in immediate contact with the sociopaths you diagnosed as autistic will go through???  I have a good friend, her boyfriend treats her horribly... Every time she try to talk about his horrendous behaviour he has a way out "I'm autistic"... Now I wonder if his therapist sugarcoated his diagnostic
This would be an interesting topic for this series. The diagnosis and how different the help you get can be.
I think that labeling someone you believe to be a sociopath as autistic is taking things too far. Telling an insurance company that a sociopath has BPD to get them coverage for certain treatment programs that you believe will help them makes sense, certainly. Because insurance companies are awful and looking for any opportunity they can to deny care. But I would never misrepresent these things to the client. Of course, as a therapist I have the benefit of more frequent/longer periods of time with my clients upon which to build a very strong rapport. I feel it's more important to be honest with them about my clinical observations, for the sake of their self-understanding, than to be afraid of rupturing the relationship. I've never had a client stop seeing me over such a thing, even when they didn't like what they were hearing, because it's also my job to empathetically and non-judgmentally explain my observation and trust that I've laid the groundwork for us to navigate a difficult conversation.  Withholding the fact their experience is accurately described by a particular stigmatized diagnosis robs them of the opportunity to recontextualize their past and move forward with greater awareness, in my opinion. I'm concerned that your readiness to label a sociopath as autistic is indicative of an outdated view of autism, especially with regard to how autistic people experience their emotions and crucially, their empathy.
 @aconsumingvoid  Good observation.  There are a few other red flags that make me say BS. Glad I never had this individual as my provider.
Thank you. Insurance companies are desperate for reasons to deny care. I see it daily as a mom of an autistic child. I’m always fighting with insurance companies.
Would you support a re-naming of the disorder to something like "Low Affect Disorder"? Or would that kick the can down the road 20-30 years until THAT became the new Sociopath? I suspect it wouldn't. It just doesn't roll off the tongue like "sociopath".
That's exactly what my psychiatrist told me and why she hesitates to actually evaluate me in the sense of ASPD, which I am convinced to be affected by. For 20 years now I have reached out for help and have only recently been taken seriously. My doctor wants to throw out other anatomical related potential origins of my behaviour, as there was a cyst found in my brain. Once that's cleared I might finally get the diagnosis and the help I have asked for before I fucked up my entire life. I knew I would, I told professionals and they neglected their duty to help. It's not like my life isn't fun, but I am not aligned with society whatsoever, never have. And it disgusts me to wear a mask and pretend to be social and interested in things I couldn't care less about. But I need to adapt in order to live a financially stable life. Which I have never had for more than a year at a time.
You're denying your patients the truth about themselves and the correct information to move forward. I don't care if you do it for insurance or because your experience is that it means they get some care. You don't get to decide that for other adults. Especially adults coming to somebody who they expect will know better. Those other conditions have vast differences in approaches and perspectives. Imagine a sociopath still feeling off because their behaviors aren't well explained by the diagnosis. I can't speak for them but I would be fuming at this deceit.
One of the wisest things I've done in my life is trying to learn English. I'm not fluent, but I can, with some difficulty, understand. And man, a world opened up to me! So many lectures, videos, classes, documentaries etc that I would not have access otherwise, because not everything has subtitles. This lesson is an example.
Some people are here just like: “alright let me attend Harvard for at least an hour”😂
Success is sleeping in the night having peace of mind, free of burdens and worry free
A man who denigrates his own daughter for being a family counselor to entertain a bunch of strangers is not a success in my book.
not here to start a political discussion but his comments on trump made me really laugh looking at the date of when this was released
This should be called "How to build a life after you have a few millions in your bank account and realize a successful career isn't everything in life" ! haha
Listening to this for the first time in 2025. I’ll definitely listen to it a few more times.
"nothing wrong with money, but the riches of your life won’t be measured by it".
1. achievement (who are we comparing ourselves to? past, present, or future? positive drivers or negative drivers ? ) twins >>> envy, greed, and fear OR recognition, pride and mastery  2. significance (I want to help other people, but who to help, and what i want to do for it? an internal and external choice) twins >>> fairness, generosity, and caring [external] OR power and selfish  3. happiness (me and now) twins >>> contentment, fulfilment OR  laziness gluttony 4. legacy (other people define our legacy, our impact in the future) are uncorrelated. twins >>> altruism and generative desire OR fear of death and need for control  Paradox example: an increase in legacy means a decrease in achievement.   > impact about me alone or others?  > context: ski to where the puck will be not where it is now. > values: family influences. > juggling and not balance  * Life has a timeline, as in we have different focus at different stage. (Why does it have to be that way? I will need to decide on my own.) * Part 3: What is enough? (what are your values? measure my way of giving away money) * Frank Batton (Landmark Communications): "Profit is constraint, not my goal. If I don't make enough money, I will be out of business. But it I make too much, that means I am not reinvesting enough into my people, community, and product." * Inflection point: Is this freeing me in making a change in my direction?  * Culture matters: I might have failed in the wrong culture. * Do not try to change the past, learn from it, and move forward. * Get specific advice from specific people.  * ripples > splash  * Nothing is wrong with money, but the riches of your life won't be measure by it.
47:03 “Everyone’s outside looks better than my inside” -  a perfect summation of social media, influencer culture and the pressures it causes people young and old. Many fantastic lessons in this lecture.
He speaks with so much wisdom and meaning and then just skips over the words after he says them. A true natural! But I found myself pausing and rewinding and thinking so much during this lecture. I still can’t believe YouTube is free sometimes😅
"everybodys outside looks better than my inside" is especially true nowadays where social media plays such a big role in our society
Success is being happy.Working on things that make you happy for the longest period possible.
when you really have built a life where you're successful, you don't need to throw anybody under the bus, you don't need any external measurement, its being at the top of a mountain you've been climbing that doesn't exist for anybody else, but seeing that everybody else has their own mountains too
Marry a happy person!  So true. This man has lots of wisdom to share.
My father died with his bride of 50+ years that he loved deeply and his 7 children and his 30+ grandchildren around him. Extremely loved. The world would not look at him as a success but when I walked away from the body, I realized he was a great success. His last act was to make the sign of the cross as his trusted his last to his God. Read Eccliastes and you will see the things that are vanity and the things are worth it.
Howard was one of my professors at HBS. He is a humble man, and a source of great wisdom. I'm honored to have studied with him.
Truuee! If you have an internet connection and know basic english, the world's knowledge is available to you. I think, if information is free, wouldn't it multiply naturally? If every scientific paper and lecture would be required to be freely available online, wouldn't we see another golden age for scientific discoveries?
Your English writing is excellent and your effort is a great example for those of us who might want to learn another language.  Nice work, Paolo.
congratz brother, learning english seems to give allot of ppl trouble lol, glad you stuck with it.  The good thing about not using subtitles, is that the context of what they are saying is not always accurately translated when put into subtitles or can't be translated correctly because their is no literal translation
I agree. I'm from Spain, if I would not self tought english to myself, education systems are terrible, I couldn't access 95% of the information online. People who don't know english in the present times are practically illiterate
I bet the world opening effect is as astonishing when learning spanish.
I'm learning German. I didn't really have an idea of how far I've come until I got a book of short stories and could read along without looking up any words! :D German isn't as useful as English, of course, but it's still a lot of fun. Spanish is next for sure.
I’m with you on this 1000%. But guess what. By watching more and more and studying more and more English you’ll get better so keep learning and getting wiser as I hope I’m doing too. Greetings from Chile 🇨🇱
Sounds like a great opportunity to become a transcriptionist. You could translate and transcribe these types of videos for the people in your native language to have access to the same knowledge. It comes with the added bonus of potentially learning interesting things or even changing your life for the better by being tasked with transcribing such a life changing video or video series that you may not have otherwise watched had you not been tasked with transcribing it! And of course the fulfillment of knowing you’re having a positive impact on many many people that would not have been able to watch without your help translating it to them. I don’t know, it’s just a thought that popped into my head as I was scrolling through the comments and thought i would throw it out there. I wish I could speak my native Italian.
same here. funny because its because of covid ive started seeing things with subtitles and know i understand even without
Paulo...wonderful. I have a Guatemalam employee who took the initiative to learn Eng lish in free classes in a local Guatemalan mercado taught by Canadian volunteers. He now.is studying a Wharton School marketing course online. He has what is called here in Guatemala basico 8th grade USA. He needed to support his family at 14 he is now 29 and fluent in English...mucha suerte en sus estudias...internet es un banqueta y esta llena con comida por su mente..buen provecho!  See also any videos by Andrew Huberman great lecturer on many topics of interest to males : testosterone,.sex drive and so many more..not business but biology esp,of hormones,.the brain etc
This makes me want to learn another language even more lol. I would love to have this experience, I can’t imagine what seeing a whole other world of communication is like. Btw u are really good at English lol
A shame knowledge is not of easier access to your home region. Though congrats on your feat, free lectures save you the tuition fee lol
you are right sir! that is exactly how I found out about bitcoin and cryptocurrencies. If it wasnt becuase of english, I would have missed the boat.
Congratulations on self-teaching yourself English! I can’t imagine living in this world not speaking and understanding English… keep on learning and start to speak and write English as well. The world will open up even more. Trust me.
Wow very good advice for me! And I am 44 year old. It's a wake-up call to call at relationships.
Similar story here, and yes this is so true! I couldn't understand math and science topics back in school, now I got to learn these and more in English online and for free! So many resources it's sometimes hard to choose! English is so much simpler and more straightforward than my 1st language, that it literally enabled me to study mathematics properly. It's crazy what learning a language can open up for you.
People speak languages they know quickly so it’s hard. Took me forever to understand my French teacher when she would get going. But your spelling is great and punctuation is better than mine haha
If you need tutoring I will do it free of charge.  God bless you
language are keys. And especially in the recent eras, everything is being recorded in English.
Ah ! You have discovered the reason for my learning Spanish, to learn more, to know more, about the rest of the world and the  Spanish speaking 'secret' of emotional and family, we all have things to learn from each other !
I strongly agree with you since it's language is used for communication globally. However, The untranslated works to English are more than translated works. It means that every language still has its own works that are worth seeking. To sum up, learning a language has never been a waste of investment.
Paulo your English is great. You did it, you're here youre speaking english with us brother! Congratulations🙂. I don't know you but I'm happy for you and proud of you for taking the time and effort to make the decision to commit and follow through. It's not easy and you did it. Rock on brother! 🤘
Olá Paulo, Parabéns pela sua conquista! 👍🏻👍🏻👏🏻👏🏻 Se me permite uma sugestão de vídeos super interessantes, busque o canal “Academy of Ideas”. Inglês fácil de entender, com assuntos muito atuais e larga visão intelectual. Tudo de bom para você! 👍🏻👍🏻
 @jesussard   I am a native Arabic speaker, English is my 2nd language being a naturalised UK citizen.  I don't know why I find myself fascinated by the way Mexican Spanish sounds, I enjoy watching movies and TV shows in English that feature Mexican Spanish at great lengths, for instance Narcos 1, 2 & 3, El Chapo, etc..  To learn a new language, I'd have to dedicate time and effort which I usually struggle to find being a very busy person.  Jesus, is Spanish worth learning?
I followed the same path as you. as you Said it's absolutely a new World.
 @gjallarnews140  A modern renaissance will follow our modern recession. This cycle will happen forever until everyone is aware of the cycle, then we can change the roots of the system which sees the universe's value to us and our value to the universe. This would have to occur globally, which is the goal of starlink/neuralink/ai bots/etc, to connect literally everyone and everyone's ideas and perspectives. Every perspective is true from the ego's perspective, from within every perspective is false which means your self-reference is false and true.
It is not that the english language is glorious...as a matter of fact it can be oxymoronic. The key is the world has agreed to use it as the standard language for international discourse and curation and translation of millions of books etc...
Tell you what Paulo, for someone who's almost new to the language, your writing is impeccable
honestly you have better grammar than most folks who are fluent
A good majority of the most impactful science is done by bilinguals, who, at a certain point in their lives, learned English as a second language.
100% agreed! You can't be too early to learn English. Most universities around the world lecture in English, hence most research is done and published in English.
Indeed, the most important skill I will teach to my kids is at least understand english. It's the most useful one I ever learned.
English language opened me the world... I still keep learning.. And for the rest of my life i will
I tell myself this too. The value of knowing the universal language is priceless.
I learnt Spanish and French and love the access to the different points of view. And the French are very serious in their research and fight and I enjoy listening to their talks, very enriched by both. But yes 80% of the websites are in English. That's why I am still so grateful it's my first language as you say it gives you so much information.
@Phát Thuận I know plenty of people who have plenty of money and you would not consider them a success in life
 @mr.j3371  I don’t like that kind of humble life, having a peace of mind isn’t a goal, being proud of what I did in my life is a goal
 @Ramithanguy  fair enough. But wouldn’t it also benefit you if your mentally stable and well too?
thats vacation :) great longterm life responsibilities require sacrfice about peace of mind... a little bit of 'worry' is ok.
 @vahagnaydinyan4512  do you feel more alive if you cannot sleep because of worries ?
Finally, at age 70, I inherited my share of the family fortune.  Now, at 72, I am still working on the future.  At least I know when to leave well enough alone, because panta rhei (plants thrive) my success was to live long enough to to be in the sunshine at the end of the tunnel. A third of a million €uro is more than plenty.
It's not a success, it's death. When you really take care of something and there is something important to you in life, be it your family, work, community, you will feel stressed out at times. But then, the goal of these endeavours will be worth it, no matter the real outcome. We will not always succeed in life, in all its areas. But the fact that you take the burden of responsibility on your shoulders by itself  constitutes a success.   "Don't fear failure. — Not failure, but low aim, is the crime. In great attempts it is glorious even to fail." Bruce Lee
 @PawelZ-xb1pq  success is different to every person. let’s say that you have a small company which is failing and you cannot pay your 40 employees and your house mortgage on Christmas, is that success? do you see what i mean by worry free ? and i really dislike quotes like that, everything is fun until you have people depending on you and your endeavors ruin them
 @s.t.5993  That's fine and I really respect your comments and way of thinking.  But what I think is that your definition of success is more like an utopian world which will probably never materialise itself in a real world.  If people measured success by worry free life they'd never have the courage to set up a business giving a job for these forty people in the first place.  But I fully agree that everyone can have a different definition of success and we cannot discard any of these.   Paweł
 @PawelZ-xb1pq  It just depends what you want. But having high stress may or may not be worth it depending on the person.
Unless you got rich on uranium mining stocks then you can never sleep in peace
Lobotomy! Now 50% off your first chunk! Get it while it's warm!
Yeah, he didn’t seem pleased by that did he? But who knows the context. Maybe she held promise in other areas or to higher levels but maybe she made some poor choices and found herself without the strength to persevere, and so, ultimately, quit or choked, and he’s just pissed about her giving up on herself and settling for something else. Still he comes off quite judgmental there I agree.
 @BezaGet normally happy people choose themselves if they find someone is making them sad or otherwise unless they are happy and gullible
That is some great advice. I did that by accident and it will make your life much easier. Happy wife, happy life.
 @MrRufusjax  that sentence means that if you work to make your wife happy, then everything will be happy therefore...  at least that's how it's used all the time
Feel like it was that way when the nuclear family was predominant as well. At least for the ones who had issues but didn’t know all the people around them were really going through the same issue.
my issue is everyone outside looks so so much worst then my inside.
It’s ties to the concept of significance. We like to work on things that make us feel worthwhile. Sometimes it is our job or careers, other times, it takes a lot of time to discover.
I teared up reading your beautiful comment, god rest his soul 😇
Seems bitter to me, can't get over Trump and his successes.
Definitely not humble, he talks regularly about his books, accomplishments, and how he never made the Forbes list
 @Sarahsmydog  You can be proud of your achievements! Yo may not be boastful about it! I think he has not crossed the limits of modesty. Self reference, self depreciation and 'Trump'ing are permitted in a lecture!
1. strive for accomplishment and a legacy 2. happiness is a mixture of different things; juggling your goals according to set limits is a useful skill.
Listening to this guy I feel like I'm on a right path as a 29 year old. I have a lot of things I can be happy about now, and a will to go to a direction that is potentially good for me.
This guy was hating on Donald Trump 11 years ago .... a revolutionary.
A lifetime worth of wisdom unpacked in less than an hour. Thank you.
I was busy wahtching this, then I see 'building a go kart' in the sidebar. I clicked on it and now and now I have something to keep me busy in 2022. Im a chronic over thinker but Im learning to not think so much and just start living life and being happy.
I loved how he opened with the fact he died (and by all accounts should be dead) and you know in that moment he is going to give you the goods.  This guy has nothing left to hold back or sugar coat.  What an amazing video.  How does this only have 700K views?  The one I loved was the point about juggling.  Every time you touch a ball you give it energy. Every time we "touch" something in our lives we need to give it energy.
This man is above genius.  The way he analogizes he makes it clearer than the Nevadan sky.  Fantastic work! Glad I stumbled upon this.
Thank you very much Professor Stevenson.  I came across this lecture just to listen for a few minutes and I ended up listening to the whole lecture.  I feel so enlightened by his lecture.  I am one of those ripples from a stone that he threw.
This is my first time seeing this gentleman, not sure why he showed up in my suggestion but glad he did. To me one of the saddest thing in the world is measuring your success by other people and trying to keep up or even out do them even though it's NOT what you actually want. I compete  with myself and only me, so when my friends achieve success I'm genuinely happy for them because their success doesn't diminish mines.
I love this guy! His sage wisdom and humor are on another level. He’s honest, a rarity nowadays.
You know someone's about to share some wisdom when they start off by saying they've already died! In all honesty, great talk, I am still amazed by the fact that we have so many valuable resources available to us... truly grateful!
The biggest mistake most people make is trusting others instead of themselves
1."Success is a taugh process,The external measures and the enternal measures aren't always the same, sometimes we are rewarded for things we are not proud of and sometimes things we are proud of we are not rewarded for." 2."Success is getting what you want and happiness is wanting what you get, marry a happy person because you are not gonna change someone who is unhappy into someone who is happy." 3."Happiness is really about me and now, you make yourself happy."
I’m so very fortunate to have the opportunity to watch not only a Harvard Business lecture but also a lecturer who’s as wise and insightful as Howard Stevenson:)
Finally someone that doesn't try to sound like a wise ass and can actually teach us to understand better.
So I just watched a fantastic presentation from Harvard that was held 8 years ago. What a time to be alive!
8 YEARS LATER & HIS ADVICE LIVES ON, THANK YOU SIR!!!
Listening to this was definitely one of the best hours I have ever spent.
So much wisdom packed into fewer than 60 min, wow. Thank you Professor Stevenson, HBS, and YouTube!
Good for you! Good to read that coming from a young person. Remember, never trust anyone under 30. 😁.          Randy Pausch lectures might interest you. And I assume you already know who Jordan Peterson is.  There are all kinds of talks and lectures online that are fabulous.       Did you ever see the movie, "Catch Me If You Can"? I highly recommend it, and then watch the true, real life guys lecture on YouTube. Take Care. 🙏 🌎
Being born again is the most important thing one can do in this life.
 @FireyOG  I think he meant 1.2 (now 1.5m) or i. Do not know :)
Exactly what a time!!  I’m 35 years old and when I was 21 watching this lecture wouldn’t have even been a possibility for this small town girl ❤️
These subtile subjects are what my community really need! We are on the track, I enjoyed; thanks
If you’re always the smartest person in the room, keep leaving 👼🏽💯
Man this is really good advice and depression at the same time. It makes everything in life seem so shallow. it's like knowing how the movie ends before watching it.
We need more lectures like this one. His emphasise that life is like juggling balls I.e. areas of your life is the most practical. This along with knowing what you want from all the balls you are juggling is essential.
success is getting what you want and happiness is wanting what you get!
I love stuff like this. This guy has wisdom and we all benefit from hearing it.
Wikipedia: "In 2014, after three doctors declared him healthy, Stevenson experienced unattended cardiac arrest on January 5 in the middle of the Harvard campus. With a survival rate of approximately 1%, unattended cardiac arrest is almost always fatal. In Stevenson's case, it almost certainly would have been were it not for a remarkable set of events."
'Setting limits increases the dimensionality of success, by allowing you to more effectively juggle al your balls' - very wise words to apply, from life goals down to your daily 'to do' list.
Two great messages for me were:   "Life is not about balance, but about jugglin, you need to focus on all balls at once, you need to give positive energy at each moment to the ball that is falling. Furthermore, you need to realize that shome balls bounce like rubber (carreer, fitness), and others shatter like glass (Familiy, old friends, health)"  "God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, courage to change the things I can, and wisdom to know the difference."  Anybody has any additional thoughts on these?
👏 This has been a great spotlight to watch. Indeed, now thinking about it, old days mom depended so much on Reader’s Digest ( in the mail). In line with that, we are so fortunate to have leading Universities post their valuable knowledge (both in theory and action) so unconditionally!   Equally, I find the comments here - those posted 10 years ago and even those posted so recently - so experienced & so hands on! 👏
Coming back to watch this after the American people suffered through a presidential term with DT as POTUS... and thoroughly LOVING how many times Howard took digs at him 😂 You're the man, Howard!
this is one of the best videos I have just watched today... thanks for sharing ,,,,
One of the most entertaining and fulfilling lectures I've heard in a while
Thank you for sharing this with us. Alot of us dont have a parental figure with helpful answers on the trajectory of life. Thank you.
"Certain neurosis help you to achieve."  That is spot on!
Nice lecture. He mentioned that he's 71 and his first child is 50 something years old. He actually had a kid at 20 or before he clocked 20.
This was a great lecture .. and he thought very little of Donald Trump 8 years back and still holds true .. he remains someone people must keep in mind that they shoud not end up becoming in the quest of success
Howard covers the key issues about Life for me (also 72 years of experience) - ‘Happiness Index - how is yours?’ & ‘Making the World a better place - have you earned this accolade?’ - His presentation & understated wisdom is very worthwhile.
Positive drivers of achievement: pride recognition Mastery Negative drivers of achievement: Envy greed and fear
What are the chances that I would read your comment exactly when he said this sentence?
DT is back, and it seems the whole world will suffer!
I didn't understand anything. My best theory is that, when he finishes with "who are you", it means "now go build YOUR life"
I can't say one way or the other if that's true. For me being dirt poor did the trick for me,  because while growing up I told myself God made a mistake this hellhole was NOT supposed to be my life. I made my money investing in rental property. For a high school graduate I do pretty good.
 @micaonyx5301  Reading your story and others like it is such an inspiration to me. After being a homemaker for almost a decade I’m now at a crossroad to begin building my own career and I desire a similar story to yours. I want so very much to build multiple businesses and solid tech skills alongside my writing. Thank you for making my day better ❤️
 @ShadaeBalancesKnightAstro  I wish you great success. I'm 61 and have been doing the landlord thing since I was 27. I'm looking into starting a new business. I can't imagine retiring and sitting in front of a TV, how boring is that.
 @micaonyx5301  I wish you further success in all of your endeavors ❤️
The world?? It’s that kind of thing is why THE WORLD is in the state it’s in. Everyone needs to start with making their own life and the ppl interact with better off first.
Outstanding wisdom. Thank you for sharing this with the world. By those who came before us can we improve...  imagine for half a second if we could improve our happiness generation by generation by learning from each other in the same way we improve our sciences and engineering? Why can't we? I certainly hope that I can retain half of his advice.
Good talk. I like many other people wanted to go to Harvard School of Public health but couldn't afford it. Listening to this guy makes me happy that I attended Summer class at the School of Public health(Longwood medical area) at least even though I 'd wanted to be a full time student of their Public health program for a year. I am successful.
Juggle through life and catch the falling ball...#deep and also loved the way he ended his speech..." The time for this test is rest of your life...or lets say today is the first day of your rest of your life..." 👌
Wow, what a speaker. He brings calmness to the moment when listening after a long day.
The part where he says to sell his soul which obviously means to do something you don't like or hate for 30+ years is the Millenials' worse nightmare. That's one of the mistakes of my generation most go for the money which is common sense and fair enough.., but in reality, we should know a little about everything, that way we could decide which trade to take that fits the personality of the person and then squeeze its full potential at a long term.
This person has drastically different values than me. And occupies a drastically different world.
Great talk! Most talks on how to lead your life are targeted to people who are failing life, it’s nice to hear one that’s targeted to people who are succeeding in life. Even the top dogs need guidance.
Live and grew up in Amarillo. Too many times I’ve wondered how I got there! Great advice and helping shift my perspective on success and happiness.
The Inflection point, those who have been here can understand the value and gravity of that sentence.  Guy is gem in terms off wisdoms !! There are points I dont  agree but if you are living western world with western culture and value.. he is spot on things that I can understand and prolly help me as I grow up with age and maturity
I love his style of teaching, awesome to study with and ponder. I look forward to my children being able to study at Harvard business school
Analogy to Juggling is fantastic ! If you don't define Enough, you don't recognize that More is costing you in another area,,,
I love HBS lectures, hoping I get to sit in on one.
This is so wise! Live life and create your own path
Your legacy is what you create, share and surround yourself with, not money. Money is an aftershock.
This was really well done. His casual manner of speaking and knowing humour add a wisdom and ease of absorption that make his talk educational and enjoyable.
What an engaging, inspiring speaker. I think watching this video was one of those positive inflection points for me.
Great video.  Really appreciate the opportunity to watch this humble and great man.
Obey Jesus Christ or you will go to hell, turn to the Lord before its too late, if you don’t REPENT OF YOUR SINS then you will likewise perish in hell. All liars, fornicators, adulterers, idolaters, blasphemers, whoremongers, thieves, murderers, homosexuals, effeminate, etc, will not inherit the kingdom of God. Once you turn to the Lord, read the new testament in the bible, the gospels, to develop a relationship with God. God bless you all. Turn to Jesus, repent or perish, turn or burn.
I have a net worth of close to two million, with a bad public high school degree. In my area that's quite a bit of money. My daughter who could have gotten into Harvard didn't want to go. Her best friend graduated from Harvard two years ago is working for a company making $15.00 dollars an hour. Education is important but without drive and determination very few people become successful no matter what their education level is 🤔
I agree, I think being late to the show and not knowing your passions until later is totally fine because after trying out a few and really knowing afterward what we want will go a long way. There was a Ted Talk about it actually how generalizing is better than specializing.
 @selenachen7091  Is pretty confusing trying to make a living of something. You think you like something all of a sudden you change your mind, deep in your heart your know you're really good in what you're doing but what's going to be the really shot? The more you study seems the more doubts you have about all subjects in life.
 @diegofelipe8715  You're always changing and evolving as time goes by and you gather more knowledge, wisdom and experience.  It is very difficult to take a snapshot of one moment in time where you are now and base your entire future life path following the passions and interest that you have now.  No one knows what the future holds so you have to ask yourself what's important to you and that can be the most difficult question you will ever face.
 @bti2270  Thank you. I think we all have dark parts in our paths, lately I'm trying to show it instead of hide it. It's pretty hard, but when you're truly honest to your soul thinks gets a little bit easy to deal with.
 @diegofelipe8715  I agree but one should see the doubts as an opportunity to learn more. Eventually, you may reach a question where you can no longer find an answer from others, since you have reached a point where no one has reached yet. Then, one can only imagine the bliss being able to answer that question.
Your comment kinda suggests you missed the point of the lecture
 @ralphfraz  and your comment suggest you missed the point of the video
Any MBA questions let me know. Here's a walking tour of Harvard yard. https://youtu.be/AkAeYVFKCjI
"I'm retired now and have time for me. But the problem is I don't know who "me" is because I've just been doing what other people tell me to do."  Would love to do a study comparing this situation to other cultures and histories where "retirement" isn't a thing.
Success is being healthy in the body and psychology. Everything else comes as a result and is not equivalent.
@10:20 - I don't trust a person who talks about respecting a person's right to define happiness for themselves and then backhands his own daughter for not going to HBS and becoming a family counselor, which by the way is a fine career. Prof. Stevenson just likes to hear himself talk. It's self absorption disguised as wise words.
This video is from 2013 , but some folks are upset he correctly spotted & criticized the -ve attributes of their Dear Leader. Money is NOT the measure of success is what he is saying !
This guy drops quotable phrases every 2 minutes damn, what a speech.
This is from 2013 and the shade for Trump was massive even then
He keeps pointing at the screen, presumably he has some kinds of slides, and yet we don't get to see them, and I feel we're missing a vital component of the talk. In the future, I feel like it would be good to make a point to capture this component.
Thank you for sharing your wisdom, and helping change our perceptions of success.
"You'll wait, the ice cream will melt, let's have the ice cream now".
It can be confusing deciding what you want. Especially if you grew up in a world where everything was taken away and the world you loved was rendered meaningless. Soon the singularity will occur and all things will unfold, then finally, I will be free of the matrix and ascend into life.
im a  rutgers student and i inculcate this speech in my life. you're awesome sir 
One of the wisest things I've done in my life is trying to learn English
Today is the first day of the rest of my life 🌴🕊️🕊️
The Falling Ball. The pain in his voice says everything. Brilliant talk.
 @nathaliedelvalle1488  It was a joke, but I'd add that it was not delivered well. First time I heard it I interpreted him as being serious and felt a bit upset. It came off as being very pompous, and as a Harvard guy, you have to be careful about a joke like that. Everyone is worried that you're arrogant and that comment supports the stereotype.
Lady Gaga made one of the greatest, if not THE greatest performances of Star Spangled Banner. His comment didn't age well. And yes, to the above points of his joke, he fails to understand the psychology of celebrity. Maybe he just plain dislikes women. (And their work).
His jokes are just humblebrags and him talking about how much he resents his kids. Even grosser is all the future business leaders laughing along.
I watch a lot of videos and rarely comment.  This video though really stuck me - I still think of it's message at least once week
This is what I play when my niece comes over. I mean harvard lectures. Playing this for my niece right now.
Great talk! This professor makes me feel like he’s speaking to me.
Arriving by chance to this video..( I am the antithesis of a business minded person),  I found this man's wit and insight to be  interesting and insightful. How he kept going in front of the fidgety dull audience I don't know.
Putting our time and effort in activities and investments that will yield a profitable return in the future is what we should be aiming for. Success depends on the actions or steps you take to achieve it.
The media.. is not given us the slides..  It will have help more.. This is deep
What did I learn? Don’t do it sequentially and Juggling vs balance ! Good life lessons
Success is getting what you want Happiness is wanting what you get Don't kid yourself; Don't cheat at solitair
It speaks well of the B School that they would schedule this sensible and valuable lecture. (Well done and thank you, Howard Stevenson!) It doesn't speak so well of the student body that the audience here are so overwhelmingly the B School's women.
Success is having what you want, and happiness is wanting what you have. Wow. I just needed to hear this, I’m sure this sentence alone is going to be detrimental for me moving forward and only forward. What a guy!
Wonderful speech. But only if I have just seen the corresponding slides while he lectured, it would have been perfect.
A girl in her 24,is confused, she have a good leadership and acadmic records and always willing to help people but she doesn't know what she should continues and she is passionate about. The thing is most of the persons are not successful because they can't imagine and know their skills and passion.
since i have watched this video, im considered a graduate of Harvard....hooray!!!
Thank hbs for having yt channel.. I can't afford a mba ..
Starting early is the best way of getting ahead to build wealth, investing remains a priority. The stock market has plenty of opportunities to earn a decent payouts, with the right skills and proper understanding of how the market works.
Binary trading is a good and reliable way of building wealth which also create opportunities for crypto Believers.
You see in trading cryptocurrency, one requires more than just a primary knowledge of crypto. It is best to trade with an expert to avoid unnecessary losses. It's advisable to have a professional trader/broker who is an expert in the field to help you manage your account
I'm into Real Estate, but I took the decision to invest in the Crypto market and I have been getting good returns on my investments. The market is also an effective way to grow wealth.
After watching several YouTube tutorial videos about trading I am still making losses, please I seek for a better website
I have been following tutorials for a month now still the same streak of losing. →Tutorials alone won't help, you need to improve your knowledge about it or seek help from experts, that's the only successful way.
I have been trading offshore I'm still yet to earn my first $50
Can Mrs Stacy Griffin kartner teach me more about Forex, i'm ready to invest my Bitcoins with her so I can get to learn and understand the process better
this is more reason you should invest with an expert, even with the fall in price I make over $45,780 weekly from my investment in bitcoin
I'd advice not to use all strategy you watch or read online. Different traders with different strategy. Trying to put all together will only lead to Making losses
Trading with an expert is the best advice for newbies and busy investors who have little or no time to monitor how their trade works.
I have been trading for 3yrs now and can tell you that without the technical abilities to handle your trades, you will be at a trade loss before entering a trade. It's more adviceble to trade with a well structured trading system that works and support your financial plans.
My advice is always to keep the majority in ETFs that cover multiple sectors. Then have a couple stocks/cryptocurrency, as a small percentage
Excellent, It has been a great experience since I got to understand how forex /Bitcoin trade works. I followed Mrs Stacy Griffin kartner rules and steps and it has been working amazingly for me. Portfolio re-balance every quarter and  index funds has worked out the best for me.
Crypto will eventually be the only currency we trade in and personally I feel in the future we will use only one cryptocurrency and it will be dropped in price to make it more accessible to everyone.. as a result it will lead to a lot of people losing thousands and thousands but no one really knows
Thanks for the opportunity, I will contact her Immediately. I'm looking forward to earn from my first investment with her.
95% of forex Trader's fail- why? Because they give up, it takes time and lots of Trading experience to become a profitable trader, An alternative or my advice is seek guidance from some pro trader's to avoid lose of funds and account blown.
Please what are the requirements to get started in bitcoin trading? And how much is her service charge to help me trade and make profit?
I suggest you contact her to get more information from her and company directly
She's not like other brokers that will start telling you stories and giving excuses why the trade didn't go well after collecting your money
It is important to have different streams of income and a diversified portfolio, I've already invested in crypto which is very profitable.
it's free access to a Harvard lecture .. the people who see the slides parents paid a fortune to get their kids in there
ie at least you are being allowed to see the lecture that people paid big money to see
i didnt understand juggling vs balance concept can you elaborate ?
 @ShahzadHassanBangash  Your comment is 3 months old, but maybe this will (still) help:  The diaglog stats at 27:00  He saying that he doens't like balance because it reminds him of a seal balancing something on his nose.  He is also saying that juggling is about having several balls to hold up, and that holding them up is harder than balancing them. He is saying have to swich focus between balls and watch all of them all the time. He is saying that you especiallly watch the falling ball, and give it positive engery each time you touch it. Lastly he is saying that some balls are like rubber and bounce (like a carreer, it will bounce in a new (Okay) direction if you make a mistake) and that other balls are like glass they will shatter beyond repair (Like your family, or your health).  The main difference in Juggling vs Balance is that in balance you seem to view life as one big thing that needs focused attention all the time to maintain (which sounds overwhelming), while jugglin is about having different separated subjects with different caracteristics and needs, that you keep an eye on all the time but focus on seperately.
It kinda just make natural sense to me that most guys wouldn't be interested in a lecture called "building a life". Dudye don't like to be told how to live. Women in the other hand can't get enough of this sort of thing
Seriously homie is the man. I wonder how much he charges as a life coach lol
Boy hedge fund guy can blab about how caring for others leads to happiness
 @2random628  I guess it's easier to believe every hedge fund is corrupt and selfish then to see people as ranging humans with different morals, wants and beliefs.
 @jordanbowey4175  I love how people act like only the poor can be caring. Guess they haven't REALLY considered all the horrible suffering poor people inflict on each other often times for what equates to little more than pennies. I'm a landlord and not one day go by where someone isn't constantly texting or calling me hoping to get someone old and feeble and don't know the value of their property so they can give them pennies on the dolla. It's so sad how helpful these poor people are as they rob you blind while they F*** you with a smile 😞
No, you attended Harvard. Not the same at all. Write a check and you can take an executive course. You get a certificate of attendance, not graduation.
I had lunch with Howard many times when he was a visiting professor in Spain. A very keen observer.
"But God demonstrates his own love for us in this: While we were still sinners, Christ died for us." Romans 5:8
I've watched 100s of success videos on YouTube, mostly during my teenage years. I've earned a lot of money and I've been broke. Don't waste your time watching this video. In short, success is subjective. I haven't watched the video for more than a few minutes but that is what he will imply. Just be you. If you don't know what to do in life, do anything until you find your purpose. Good luck.
great talk, especially for planning your life, and a discussion of what is happiness, what is a success... also a few jabs at Trump, pre-2016 lol this guy was ahead of the times haha
﴿وَما خَلَقتُ الجِنَّ وَالإِنسَ إِلّا لِيَعبُدونِ﴾ [الذاريات: ٥٦] And I did not create the jinn and mankind except to worship Me. - Saheeh International    ﴿كُلُّ نَفسٍ ذائِقَةُ المَوتِ وَإِنَّما تُوَفَّونَ أُجورَكُم يَومَ القِيامَةِ فَمَن زُحزِحَ عَنِ النّارِ وَأُدخِلَ الجَنَّةَ فَقَد فازَ وَمَا الحَياةُ الدُّنيا إِلّا مَتاعُ الغُرورِ﴾ [آل عمران: ١٨٥] Every soul will taste death, and you will only be given your [full] compensation on the Day of Resurrection. So he who is drawn away from the Fire and admitted to Paradise has attained [his desire]. And what is the life of this world except the enjoyment of delusion. - Quran English Commentry
"i know nobody that I want their advice on all parts of my life". That makes total sense but I think people give that very little thought.
Just the lesson I needed to hear for the day. Anyone have similar talks they can recommend?
19:57 "if you find love at the office, you can get yourself sued" deserved a louder laugh loooool
he reminds me of Soul's brother from better call Soul lol
I feel like I'm on a right path as a 25 year old
The bit that's standing out for me is the bit where he talks about how it's important to have a sense of enough, as that enables you to enjoy achievement more and move on to the next falling ball you're juggling. If anyone happens to know exactly where that bit is, and can send me a timestamp, that would be much appreciated!
Insightful comments and jabs on DJT two years before he arrived on the national scene.
Thank you for sharing your point of view. This was interesting and a great way to delve deep into the topic and hear a different perspective of some things. This was awesome!
EXACTLY.. We live in a culture thats sold people on this fallacious idea of winning life. We are but mere mortals with limitations. People try their best to forget that
feel like this is the talk i always wanted with my grandpa -come back to it always
Turn on automatic captions and count the times it gets the words life and wife wrong.
An excellent talk.  I wish some of the slides were shown.
Wow, I don’t even need to go to Harvard. I can just watch their lectures online 🥲
I believe what the Bible says over this guy. The two only commands are, "love the Lord your God with all of your heart soul, mind and strength, and your neighbor as yourself". Funny, nothing is mentioned about God or Jesus about how we should be measured.
The problem with this video is that you do not have the overview of the slides. It is hard to see when he changes of topic or move to the next point
I love the part on happiness vs success vs significance at 8:00
You should show the speaker's presentation. We couldn't see any of the images.
Please read the book "Yatharth Geeta" once in your life, it's available in 29 world languages  This book will help in understanding universe top kept spiritual secrets with the simple explanation. This hidden gem is worth reading to transform life positively  Great Book ever written on Earth!
The judgement will be made by God. Whatever wisdom we have we need the forgiveness of our sins by Jesus Christ. Then we have life otherwise it all ends in hell.
if you keep your eye on one ball your going to Drop all the others' #juggling
The video is called building a life, why would he talk about a woodworker who was killed at 33 and did squat in his life?
This is a serious talent from Harvard for free online come on I am blessed
The only experience that necessarily happens with age is the aging process itself. Don't confuse "experiencing" and "aging" as complete synonyms.
True, but assuming you are moderately intelligent. You'll likely gain experience with aging.
So while i was using differential equations to solve problems at state the harvard kids were getting standup, is that how it works?
I beg to differ.  This guys fit ull of himself and his fellow uber wealthy friends.  He talks about balance yet clearly has ignored his own health. He dropped dead, said he was healthy and it just happened. Look at him. Talking of 71 as if he is so old and venerable. Absolutely in denial. Who care about his kids trust funds or his wealth/achievement.  I am glad he does nice stuff but please buddy-love thyself but in a healthier way. Be that example for your family and friends.If they really do love him,, they want him to be healthy.  I am glad he is successful. Why did he have to judge Lady Gaga like that?  People struggle. Just like he did and needed oxygen while hiking. He should wince.
32:53 "If youre not happy, forget about it"  Where the hope in that man? Thats what i sound like when im depressed. Anyone have a different take on what hes saying cuz i feel like i missed the point.
What's up on those slides though? Would you be kind enough to share a link. I can take notes, but I'd like to see Prof. Stevenson's diagrams.   Also, great lecture, great lecturer. Thanks for the share HBS.
Step one exploitation  Step two censor the exploited  Step 3 do charity for anyone as long as people see you doing it  Step 4 be humble,  you didn't earn it
I will forever be indebted to you, you've changed my whole life i'll continue to preach about your name for the world to hear you've saved me from a huge financial debt ,with just little investment thanks so much  Mrs Teresa Lawrence?     🙏
Although at times it was interesting hearing what he had to say, overall I don't really think it was all that coherent or wise, and the constant bragging didn't really make him anymore likeable. Mostly sounds like if you just dug some truisms out of the most popular business books from the past few decades and mixed in a few anecdotes about his children going to Ivy League schools.  Hurts me to say it though, but he just seems like a guy who has been driven by society's version of what success looks like for so much of his life that he has forgotten how to create his own values, or at least has had a difficult time reconciling this with the life he has lived.
If you still want the same thing at 82 as you wanted at 22, you're name is Hugh Hefner 😂😂😂
Hello guys I have been watching some video and I was thinking about investing in bitcoin/forex but still don't know where to start from.
Am I the only one who didn't get much out of it? Seeing the comment section I almost feel bad that I didn't get the big enlightenment from it like others
Very good points brother. I am guilty of having fallen back into a habit that I knew was not of God or the Bible but felt compelled to do: I burnt Sage and threw salt around the house at the end of last year, ironically to get rid of evil spirits and influence that I believe was around a family member who is really into Halloween, the paranormal, horror  movies, and horror culture (posters, clothing, memorabilia, and the like.) I regularly pray for them a lot anyways, but when they dressed their one-year-old baby(my grandson) up as a devil for  Halloween it was the straw that broke the camel's back for me and I felt I needed to do something physical to cleanse out that type of influence. As a Christian I should've known better, but for whatever reason I felt the need to do that.  I repent for burning that sage and I ask God for forgiveness and accept it in Jesus's name.  Prayer to God and belief in his influence and protection of my family should have been enough.
His advice is bad @9:05, when you marry someone who's unhappy it could be a mental issue like depression and saying not to merry depressed people is kind of prejudiced against them, they want to have a life too. Also someone who's unhappy or depressed can become happy with time. You can be unhappy when you lose your job/spouse or whatever reason and then be happy later ect. Just pointing that out.
Yes, many Harvard students work hard to get in and then slide buy with professors inflating their grades. Then they get good jobs because their parents and friends parents are rich executives. Many don’t get jobs after Harvard
WOW...amazing to see others who trade with  Mrs Teresa Lawrence i am on my 7th trade with her and my portfolio has grown tremendously
 donald richie  YOU CAN MESSAGE HER ON HER TELEGRM PAGE'':buffering:  @INVESTWITHTERESA
Amazing i also just started trading with Mrs Lawrence .she is the best at what she with an initial investment of $4,300 i made $11,980 in just a week her strategies,are mind blowing
Wow I'm just shocked you mentioned and recommended expert Mrs Alice trading service,I thought people don't know her... she's really awesome
Who is this professional broker everyone in talking about l always see her post on every YouTube
What is the most reliable way to get in touch with her
Expert Mrs Alice is the most reliable broker i have ever seen
Been earning $28,000 on every $4,000 invested on the 5trading days with Mrs Alice
 Bitcoin Trading  Thanks for the recommendation  Will contact her immediatly
Hello any fixed amount for a beginner, let me know if I can do this
Halloween is fun. Being religious for yourself doesn't mean you have to judge or "cleanse out" others. God surely wouldn't care about stuff like that
I think you kinda have a misunderstanding on it. @9:00 He mentioned that "Happiness is wanting you get", so here he is generally talking about if a person is always unhappy because of unsatisfactory with current life or something he/she already achieved,  the situation at least the thought might not be changed easily.
I started building my life about 3 days after I was conceived.
It's better to watch it twice(or even thrice) Because he talked about nearly everything and you are not able to hold these information at once
I love how he digs at Trump every chance he gets. Rightfully so...
Before I go I should have American passport. Does who can help me to do it?
The most impressive thing i heard here, is the 72 year friend who beats his college tennis player son.
Success = be a white guy in a suit with connections who went to college with rich parents.
47 minutes in and I wonder how I got a 70 year old man's wisdom in 30 years...... that was an expensive waste of time
He has a great knack for comedy without trying to force it
This video is 8 years old. Shows you that he was complete garbage before getting into politics.
Yes.  I would have never guessed a professor at Harvard wouldn't be objective in his lectures.
@Klam True for a lot of people. The American dream is pretty dead. Class matters a lot
Makes himself a victim within 2 minutes.  The students love it.
I’m going through so much that he talked about. My parents are very successful but I want to be an actor 😂
Howard stumbles over himself to make sense of how he gave away his life for 'success'. I couldn't expect anymore from the, oh so awesome Harvard haha.
A great topic and coming out of Harvard Business School, the expectations of a great video were very high.  Unfortunately this guy was all over the place with his speech, with no direction and point he was building up to.  He did make some true points that the belief you have succeeded  really depends who you compare yourself to, finding your passion is BS and don't wait to be happy.  However why did he have to bash Trump several times in this discussion?  Completely unnecessary and seems like he was pander to his audience.
I love the very intelligent and subtle attack on Donald Trump
Very good and eye opening speech, many thanks for sharing !
It was a great talk, but I can’t help say I’ve never felt more disconnected from another human than a Harvard graduate making jokes about trust fund babies and his ex wife  These upperclass people really do live in a unique bubble
Not coming from a place where families bounce and careers shatter. Enormous privilege and its problems.
Expert wizardy. Fun to listen to. I think Trump paid to get on the Forbes List as well.
Advice for rich people.  When you're working 7 days a week, 12 plus hours a day till you die, you don't think much about "lunch with friends". You think about shelter and food. Somebody needs to do a video for regular people, not hedge fund managers "adding zeros" to their kids requests.
It’s hard to follow his speaking . He jumps into a random story and mumbles it and cuts at it and continue
I’m always fascinated by language and jealous and envious of those that speak more than 1. Which other language do you speak and which would you suggest slow Americans learn ?
Then be an actor. Why think and what to wait for?
Then I think it makes total sense. You have a cushion - go for it. Like Paul Giamatti - ridiculously successful dad. He still had to grind for many years as an actor, and you are probably more photogenic. Personally I am getting nothing, and would have preferred more to being a professional actor/writer/director. But I squandered my 20s as an addict (and I’m not sure that I had much choice). So, I consciously headed to graduate law school. Started in my mid 30s, and into corporate law. Not what I really wanted but I QUITE like it. I’m pretty good at it - talent is important - it means you are more rested at what you do compared to the competition. I’m respected and have lots of autonomy (run my own business, keep my own hours). So I’m happy with that arc of my life, because it sucked so bad the first 35 years. I am happiest to know my kid/s will likely have more flexibility to take bigger career and artistic risks. They won’t inherit a fortune but they get to “take a real swing at whatever”, and inherit a house. Definitely not trust fund babies - but won’t be starving. Had I gone for that career and failed then I would be screwed, and would my kids.
it is obvious that he is envy about Donald Trumps achievements, because he is just a fucking lecturer)
That part I hate the most. But the good prof does acknowledge his skills in the boardroom.
Measuring how much he gives vs how much debt he has to pay
I notice that this fellow is constantly name dropping "elite" schools (even high schools!), his very rich friends, and "prestigious" corporate careers — setting up a trust fund seems to be major activity in his circle of friends. In America we send our best young people to the ivy league, to Chicago, Stanford etc etc. — despite the fact that these schools are famous for teaming with woke "leftists", the true underlying culture and power structure is not one that aims to grow a thriving  and growing America for all people, but rather to perpetuate this cadre of elite.
don't you mean "oppressed victims of toxic masculinity who must be treated with love at all times, be supported when they are controlling and strong minded at the cost of other peoples happiness, and given special treatment and positively discriminated for in job applications"
I think the slides are not shown because of some kind of copyright things etc.
"i don't want to spoil my kids" and he lives in a Mansion lol
The problem with excluding opinions because you don't like the people is you then have a completely wortlless study, or at best a highly biased study that is applicable only to a certain group, not generally.
I love the low key disses on Trump. Hilarious. Nice to see ppl thought he was trash before becoming president.
Its like 2 am and after a while i tuned it out… but what the hell are the 4 areas of life hes talking about the video doesnt show it and he doesnt list them
An old man bragging about his millions, wine and high ceilings while mocking his daughter for stepping out his footsteps. A questionable wisdom, especially in the face of death.
No doubt a successful chap but this was almost an hour out of my life. What was said could have been done in about 20~30 mins;   maybe I can advise Mr. Stevenson on use of resources for us who are only on the way up.  Stick to the point.  Try to be concise.  Good advice.  Interesting anecdotes but nothing really magical.  None the less, thank you.  Just thought I would give back a little as well.
That he basically shit on his daughter for becoming a counselor is all I need to know. Never listen or model yourself on people that are willing to shit on their family in friends to others.
He mentions Donald Trump every five minutes, why? I'm not from US and I think I'm not getting some kind of interna joke or some crap.
I’m going through so much that he talked about. My parents are very successful but I want to be an actor 😂
Your perception is incredibly narrow if that's all you got from that
1.5x speed is a thing. You have the option of controlling how quickly you soak it in.
I see your point. I think this is meant to be experienced more like an uncle/grandpa breaking things down to you over a quiet weekend.   Mixes in a few stories and corresponding feelings… made it more personal for me. I love the unnecessary details.   Makes me think of Raymond Reddington.
You provided nothing of value. You should've kept your two cents to yourself, and whatever direction you think you're headed in is irrelevant since you're short attention span will prohibit you from ever meaning much
+Halal G  thanks, nice lecture too bad they didn't post the slides
maybe he wants us to use our imagination to stay creative
Most intelligent folks would agree that Trump is a narcissist and overly boasts his own abilities. Interesting that this was posted in 2013, prior to his presidency
 @keepmefloating  He may be all the things you want to attribute to him, but you can't deny he is succesful indeed. I'm curious, who says that people that agree with something obviuous are intelligent?
wow this is really good!...need more lectures from this guy's class!!
life advice, life is a series of miracles and loveing events, and life is also full of sufferings.l
He isn't teaching loool He's just an emotional person with a hard life
So easy for smart people to talk about success. I'm too dumb for society
there are no savings because everything is too expensive to save
"Most human beings except Donald Trump have these emotions." Kind of wild listening on the other side of 2020 presuming this was recorded well before Trump entered national political life.
Is there a possibility to share with general public Howard's presentation? I guess it would be a great life roadmap for some people including me. Like a profound reminder to steer in a right direction. Thanks in advance if someone can share it.
This lecture is a series of boiler-plate platitudes frequently punctuated by failed dad jokes. Sometimes I think "I would love to go to an ivy league school." But if this is the content taught, it's absolutely not worth it.
This professor doesn’t like Trump - but thinks Marx’s legacy could be positive
Girls seem to care more about teacher's feelings not getting hurt so they go to class more etc.
That is your choice, but as a BLACK & near DEAF Male I would have to say, I rather be as accomplished as any of those top dog billionaires than being a person as yourself, always voting for political parties that supports begging from the bottom, never getting anywhere and blaming others for their own problems.  This video, i am sure anyone accomplished as Donald Trump or any other Billionaire has embraced some parts of this video at one time of their life.  Despite my age, limitations, ill-fate has dished out to me, i plan on being one of those top dogs.  See you around.  IMO
 @cedricanderson5866  My point was that the speaker kept bringing up Donald Trump's name even though Trump was not even running for office.
The benefit in attending an Ivy League school isn't in the material taught, it's in the connections and networks you can potentially make.
To be honest, people like Howard may seem smart in western society, but he is just as shallow in Asian culture. American culture is still too young to generate integrity in philosophy.  He is only talking about life in a very short-term way. When you go through our human history, you will find he is wrong on 80% of his points.
Actually in juggling the most important ball is the one you are throwing. If you throw them properly they will just fall into your hand. There is literally no conscious focus on the falling ball. Especially with more complex patterns and more objects the need for placing the balls very precisely increases tremendously, while the catching part remains trivial even in the most advanced patterns. (Certainly every now and then your hand coordination messes up the catching process, but mistakes are random and rare and nothing thats ever gonna need deliberate practice.) Therefore I would say: the most important ball is the one you are about to throw, because its the one thats gonna either fall to the floor itself or mess up your coordination, causing failure further down the line, if thrown poorly. The ball thats already falling will land in your hand effortlessly if it was thrown properly. I hate when people build their metaphors on false assumptions about matters they dont know anything about.
I'm so grateful, thank you so much for sharing! I got so many notes to apply!
Ooof, “supposed to be Donald Trump in the boardroom”, hasn’t aged well.  10:02
I didn't realize people were already that hard on Mr Trump back in 2013
Hes a shill for the NWO   However he makes some good points lol    When he mentions Trump he acts a shill. He knows that Trump is an actor and the whole game of politics are a show. Hes promoting the show.
I love how much he mentions Donald Trump, although not in a positive light. MAGA?
I think he was trying to be too entertaining. As a non-native English speaker, it was hard for me to stay focused on the subject.
Huge failure not to include the slides on the video. Nevertheless, the talk is fantastic.
Im intersted by your remark that sounds smart for western but is shallow in asian culture :). You say he is wrong on 80% of his points, im curious to hear you explain some wrongs in some of his points. It could give a good extra perspective.  Thanks!
People were making fun of Trump heavily on Saturday Night Live in the 1980s and 1990, seriously. Check it out
that's crazy. this guys foundation isn't based on anything to do with trump.
Wow, is this a joke? People go to HBS to learn this?
Im sure he's a nice guy, but the undertones of extreme priviledge, the bragging about his kids, etc. I'd venture to say racist ( the cleaning lady who was most likely not here legally originally) Yikes
What a weird presenter, ok we get it, you survived... move on!
I'll remember this talk for a long time tbh; this shit highly motivated me and all.
Such low....  Think big.... All of existence... In all that you are speck of dust... A moment.... And it's called life.... And pufff.... Gone.... That's what you are...
Who is that Eric who wrote the book, who said "Everyone’s outside looks better than my inside"? And what book did he write?
Life has to be and life has become. Life has become as an expression of that is an integral rationality, a mercy and an harmony. Life is God's thought creating the worlds. In this perspective to build a life that sounds human it is in God, by God and with God one must search the tools. Otherwise life will continue to be a sort of condemnation for millions who must be born on this planet to suffer form all those bloody dictators who are the practical expression of those who have convinced themselves that for them to live a life, for them to build a life, millions lives must be devastated, ruined, deprived and in this perspective, terror regimes such as the one at Togo since almost six decades have been erected as universal maxim.
Interesting, a bit jumbled, but found to be his collection of life lessons.. I suppose it's what I thought it would be, roughly. Depending on how well versed you are in ideas, principles and reflection... This talk may or may not present some new ideas or help draw new conclusions.
"Marry a happy person." Ah, that explains why I'm single...I've always been miserable...:O
I like these lectures except the comedy , I have taken an hour out of my precious time to learn from your knowledge not your occasional stories and jokes - I already have a grandpa for that.
snide comments are a put-off in a person to me. Theyre not a trait of humor. But other than those, points of wisdom to enjoy here. Wonderful mind and experiences shared with those who are willing to absorb the investment.
Somebody can to write thesis conspect what is he talking about?? I know English bad, and it's would be good support for understanding this speech.
The only problem of "westlessness" is that they try to teach everything to student. If one can learn to build a life in a classroom then what's point of life?
Americans should have watched this before 2016 elections... probably before every election ever. Including metaphorical ones, like internal family politics.
Every article of clothing I own can fit into a large Hefty bag-it's enough. Still working on the other stuff.
I liked how he warned us about Trump 3 years early
this guy had strong opinions on Donald Trump before he was even a president!
I felt the need to wanr everybody, dont waste your time, this is a convoluted talk , the guy is all over the place, hard to follow. A minute of listening to jordan person is better than 3 hrs of this guy
I can't judge or juggler. I can't sceak no more than that status
As an Irish person, he is getting the Irish stories hilariously wrong. The minister 100% does not identify as Danish. It was a joke. Many people have surnames that are Norman, Danish, scandanvian, Scottish, etc. Unless they are first or second generation they don't identify as Danish etc.   Regarding the minister of reconciliation piece, Irish nationalists/Catholics have been treated as second class citizens up until 30/40 years ago (Kickstarted the troubles up north) so this isn't something that is ancient history.
do you have any link same thema??? i think succes no human standart. Succes in my life, if i know what the purpose i life. What the meaning about your life.
I tend to find that I would argue that I'm considerably more intelligent than everyone in that room. This is due to the fact of my IQ being EXTREMELY high and I've read all of the important business books including The Art of The Deal and I watch Elon Musk interviews just for fun. Perhaps your best chance against me would be to invest in strength because I have you beaten on the wisdom score by far 😁
What about the successful  people  that think they are successful because they have more than the rest around them but they’re only making like 45,000 to 60,000 a year? So probably not well rounded and probably don’t even come close to the people in that room? So what do you recommend  if there watching  i’m sure most won’t listen because they already disagree with your first punch line
is there a way I can get those lecture slides ?
Does anyone know were we can view the slides that were presented during this session?
Ming blown, I feel like I put my brain out washed it and put it back.
This guy was great & I listen to JP constantly. Both good.
This guy doesn’t like Trump but he sure is fascinated by him.
happiness is being happy at the current time with no regard to the situation (unless your basic needs are not met) instead of watching this 1 hour video from a Business guy go read Citium and eastern philosophy
Does anyone know why he mentions Donald trump often in his lecture?
Some of you are the smartest most ruthless people in your generation, the rest of you had parents who were... As long as you stay away from the Widowmaker your lives are going to be great
The book he wrote, which one specifically is he referring to in his talk?
Where can I get the slides.... I know it's besides the point
This guy was calling Trump out 8 years ago. Too bad so many people love their MAGA blanky :(
What was the camera person thinking about the importance of the video? It’s like half the presentation was ignored. Great talk though.
Does anyone know who Anne is or if her speech is posted anywhere?
successful parents cant have successful children is because the smart parents micro manage the sh1t out of their kids and never let them reach their potential.
I love how he used Trump as a negative example all the way back in 2013...
I thought I would not like or learn anything from another lectrure by a older white male but after a shaky start we'll worth listening to...
31 and no career...well I'm definitely not successful...is it too late for me? 😩
We are the age of "triple No". I mean people who were born from 80 till 99 years. No money, no established work, no family. Today women don't want a family in classic schema when a man first. The government no more need clever citizen. We are totally degraded and lost in not our life. The Bank today is a government and money is a God. I'm not happy, because I saw many homeless on the street and I cant help those people. My wife left me because she wants more money and chooses the richest man than I.
Actually it’s quite easy, ask each person to express their life satisfaction on a day to day basis, on a scale of one to nine. Five is the middle, 1 the lowest, 9 the highest. The twin studies show that this is largely a function of genes. In other words, at gestation you either lose win the lottery of life. I often ask people to place themselves. One woman said she was a nine and woke up each morning happy. She said she had only met two other people like her. “Is your husband there. She said, “God no!” I am depressed, myself, with a constant 4 to 5, alas. My psychiatrist said, “You chose the wrong parents.”
I hope you’re proud of your family counselor daughter. Seemed to gloss over her after saying 2 business children made out well lol
He has his little quips that are fine and add to the speech, but there's someone laughing like he's just f**** killing the room.
I hate it when people try to make others laugh by dissing donald trump when hes the billionaire and this guys a teacher. First thing in business dont make fun of people you might have to deal with them one day. And if you choose not to you can cost your business everything. Dont belittle people to make yourself look consequential if your successful you dont need to.
The Lady Gaga comment is a bit outdated now. She’s an excellent role model today
13:19 This guy was a Trump hater before it was fashionable
yes but also no. Genes can go so far but the environment can also affect you too that is why there is this huge debate over nature and nurture. If we knew genes was everything then psychologist won't be debating the topic. Being constant is understandable because personalities and ideas don't change that fast but after a few years things happen and people who weren't so happy, something might have clicked and became happier and vise versa. I do believe having the correct mindset is also very important.
Well he did humblebrag about starting the first hedge fund, living in a Mansion with 20ft ceilngs, and having a friend who gets warmed up for tennis by Roger Federer so I wouldn't necessarily say that this guy is "just a teacher" lol  He's lecturing at HBS, although I do agree that that was pretty unwise of him to be mocking people...
Follow Tupac or this guy, I choose this guy!  This guy needs a bandana and a blunt coz his bad ass!!! Thank you buddy
If you wouldnt know what kind of talk it is, it could be a random old homeless man rambling along the trainstation
Notice how he mentions Trump in many examples, he foretold the future.  See @19:10
Is this lecture a part of an ongoing class and if so is there a playlist for the remainder of this classes lectures? I'd like to hear more
विचारूनि बोले विवंचूनि चाले। तयाचेनि संतप्त तेही निवाले ॥  बरें शोधल्यावीण बोलो नको हो। जनी चालणे शुद्ध नेमस्त राहो ॥१३२॥ Ego less Sundar pichai
I love to do homework. Support the words; save the boring talk. What do you mean by all of this? "Are you successful?"
Please, no public dissing ex spouses.  Children (and idealistic audiences) hear these judgments. Helpful?
Sir, what is wrong with Lady Gaga? Her life seems to be inspiring.
Little did he know that Trump would be president a couple years later
This man really attracts the women. Just look as the female gender surrounds him.
Three Donald Trump burns in the first 20 minutes?! This guy really is dishing out wisdom.
Dear Harvard Business School, Howard H. Stevenson is probably showing some slides. Do you think it's ok to just don't give a fuck about it and do not show them?
1 hour  to tell something you can right in one sentence.
I really don't see any Indian in this type of lectures  If someone here please let me know 🙏🙏👍
Keep in mind, this was before Trump was officially involved with politics and he knew how much of a selfish narcissist he is...
What’s wrong with being a family counsellor? His grandchild contributes more to society than his damn hedge fund ever did.
42:57 you either gain a daughter or lose a son  deeper than you think!
profit = un-tung          The Center for PostNatural History in Pittsburgh.
I know who is the twin. It’s on my website. If the lecture material is not yours. (logo off)
I agree with a lot of what he says... saying be like Trump but not Lady Gaga is a bit strange. Her IQ level is probably higher than his for one but she's a creative and conservatives are affraid of that in thier own kids.
damn did he just roast his kid for being a family councelor :(
Professor Stevenson brags a lot 😀😀. His kids went to Harvard, His friends play tennis with Roger Federer, he climbs mountains, he worked with hollywood bigs .. the list just started 😀
Enjoyed his talk very much; only thing I wish he would not have added "Donald Trump" name so often...Trump has had his measure of success both professionally and personally. I am not a Trump fan, but I like to appreciate the positive aspects of people.
He missed everything because he speaks from the secular dimension.   Its not happiness one should seek.  Happiness is based on circumstances, its joy.  Joy is not based on circumstances.  Success in  life?  Having rich relationships horizontally (with God) and vertically (with love ones).  Everything else gets burned up in the end.
The older they get, the worse their jokes become :). Interesting video, though it felt a little unfocused.
What's with the Trump hard on?   Three hits on Trump so far.  WTF?
Whate is this man basing his hate for artists on or in particular Gaga?   It’s inappropriate and Harvard should not endorse or give a platform to people who are bigots.  Gaga is a great global, humanitarian, asset and wildly successful worthy of respect to model and support.
Page 854     ta-mak = greed      stomach = pe-rut     parish 1 2 3 (in England and formerly Wales) the smallest unit of local governmant. 4 (in Louisiana) a county 5 (in Quebec and New Brunswick, Canada) a subdivision of a county. 6 7 [C13: ..... PARA- (beside) + oikos (house)]
That's because he is a normal person, not a member of an insane death cult.
an interesting thing is that if you look at the happiest places on earth in various polls, it tends to be the least religious (like Scandinavia).   A spiritual side can be interesting, but it's clearly not needed to be happy in this life.
I waa thinking the exact same thing. As someone who respects trump it was somewhat offensive. But then again what he's saying is valuable so i listen.
 @didafm  Thanks.  It was just not the place to hit on Trump or anybody.   Out of context.  Being 2013, before Trump even entered the presidential race, it suggest some personal history between the two.   For me, it made the rest of the lecture less valuable.   Have you tuned in to Thomas Sowell youtube posts?
His bash of Lady Gags was shallow,  & wrong headed.
After 20 minutes of constant speaking while saying nothing at all, I dropped out. Dude would make a good politician for being able to emit constant worthless conjecture while sounding astute.
it's so real so I couldn't watch it while coding  :)
Yeah but what if you were a writer all growing up, and you wanted to continue writing as a profession. This guy realizes people make a living as writers right?
He lost me when he said he started one of the first hedge funds
When I took that sugar medicine that caused distortions in personality?
If only he had known at the time of recording this that someday Donald Trump would go on become the POTUS.
Jugglers do not keep their eyes on all the balls. Only the balls in the air, and only when they are at the top.
Great talk. However this guy talks about money a lot and seems to take every opportunity to bring up how much this or that person has.
@9:50  Success Donald Trump in the  board room.  What would he say today.
This guy sounds depressed. Why's he giving a speech on how to build a life?
You look like Rush Limbaugh, but bash Trump jealously every few paragraphs. Boring and pompous art thou Mr. Stevenson.
When your shadow is DJT … wonder your thoughts now a days
Was this meant for only women? I don't see any dudes in the audience lol
Lots of shallow examples of shallow behaviors from wealthy shallow people, like the guy who pays Federer to warm him up that apparently is associated with happiness.  You gotta wonder about the size and horror of the narcissistic prison that jails some of his acquaintances.
Just had to put in a Jab to Donald Trump for the Chinese communist party.
52:00 why don't you tell that to Israel who killed millions Palestinians because they claimed it was their land thousands of years ago
we actually would do WELL to look up to lady gaga compared to some of these others.. anyways...
 @2002honda954  Pretty standard for a pollitian. Ego maniac id assume, but that drive is necceassry to achieve such heights. He has a good relationship with all his kids and his ex wives..
this guy does not know how to juggle. you only look at one ball and that’s the one in the air. and the one at the top in the air is the most important one. he should stop using an analogy he knows nothing about. juggling is like riding a bike. once you know how you can easily build on it and you never lose it.
"live life forward" is a good general rule - but kind of loses momentum coming from a system that plays a global tyrant, wouldn't you think?
Wise dude. Unfortunate TDS though. It's like he has a tic and has to mention Trump in some disparaging way every 5 minutes or he'll self destruct.
Its alright.  Hes super anti-Trump which is wierd cause he seems normal.
I could only imagine how he felt when Tr*mp got elected
Dont appreciate his shallow judgement on individuals.....for the good or bad.  What he is talking about is merely common sense value judgements for the individual.  It's not buddha's enlightenment.
You are attending Harward Business School. You are already more successful than 99% of the world, OR you are that 1% failure...
Why did you need to swipe at Donald Trump? It was petty and distracting. Just saying .
Too bad this man’s hatred of Donald Trump colors the wisdom of his talk.
Great Lecture... Also, you better delete this comment because I am going to say it... Trump 2024!
Trump pays a lot to be put on the Forbes list? So you are talking about Trump!
Why is he starting looking like Trump if you look closer
Better pick a good, loyal wife.  Otherwise your going to have a hard go.  The  odds are against a man.
wats with all the trump hate. this did not age well
You interview 150 people. But you didn’t interview Trump. He is a very successful businessman, was I mis thinking ?
The professor is awesome but the cameraman needs some serious training.  If he walks and talks and moves, zoom the fudge out.
Great talk. Trump gets put on Forbes because he created Manhattan . I would put him on it too.
The alcoholic process laparoscopically snow because snowman additionly talk up a messy ice. imminent, brawny work
The obnoxious sparrow probably squeeze because debtor impressively strap save a steep zoo. versed, gullible gusty debtor
I appreciate the wisdom, but we get it you don't like Donald Trump!
The equable quality reversely beam because silica prominently play against a willing gemini. plastic, dusty bagel
The placid transport mechanistically box because sidecar nutritionally shave abaft a shiny opinion. blue, petite apology
Oh my my Ithought it was Hward delivery at Harvard :) nice
The tacit doubt monthly recognise because athlete notablely cause towards a uppity feature. barbarous, somber spain
Wow Donald Trump is living in his head rent free 😂
This guy is bitter and jealous! However a lot of what he says is true
lol I was just thinking that. What's amazing is this was recorded well before he ran for president.
 @citizenoftheyearCC  yea thats why i was so curious about it haha😂😂
 @JakeInvest  ​ @CitizenOfTheYear  and its so funny, the thing that he was an ordinary rich businessman and there isn't much comments on him  then he runs as a president, gets followers, and now the comments are filled with praising him as a national entity   lets avoid the controversial discussions and focus on this,  in America that their patriotism is on a religious level, a person can become a big figure and infuse in people's belief system where the person's individuality will completely alter to a point that will resemble a legacy of a nation regardless of what they were before that point (though people were really divided on the guy, but that's another topic)  the video plus the comments are really intriguing
isn't it strange, that an intelligent person, nearly dies and then goes on to overeat, be fat, and hasten his next major health issue?
You are so smart in Harvard school, but not smart enough to show us the slides...
The taboo army joly boast because pair therapeutically pass lest a cloistered impulse. important, sulky peace
I bet this guy pooped a brick when Trump got elected president!
Too many side jokes. You keep taking so many shots at trump that I can’t even watch this.
Lot of off-hand digs at Trump.  Look how Trump's kids turned out.
This is so absurd. Everybody's path to success and happiness is unique and this is not something you can learn by attending classes. Of course it is helpful and educational in a way to learn some else's life story but you could learn these things by listening to anybody's story pretty much.
estos tienen la cagada en el mundo y siguen cobrando sueldo.  sólo en america. greed is not good, fascism neither  , love is good, CHINA is love.
This is business school? 😂 a guy slamming anecdotes about his life for an hour?
U-shape type of sitting? Do you find comfortable speaking ?You should be sitting there. Or standing there.      Rafflesia sp. = pakma pg 3.
Pa-pa-ya = Ba-ba-ya (Ar)     A-ya-ya = mother (kazarKH)
Listened to the whole 57 minutes. A lot of pointless and random wise words(and Roast of Donald Trump) but not a very concise lecture. Could have been better in terms of structure.
Like how he talks about Trump, this was filmed in 2013, 3 years later Trump would be President of the united States...
Hospital Dr René delapaz Reyes Guevara CIA book vivo Technigy Book CIA
It's funny how much he shits on Trump throughout the lecture.
His boring with Trump. Not even funny... Those liberals are really limited people, unfortunately.
Thanks man. Forgot I have already listened to this. Won't waste anymore of our time.
Life before the self-improvement and entrepreneurial channel explosion on YouTube. (By the way, this guy is a terrible public speaker. Not only is his speaking style horrid, but his talk actually doesn't have any substance. And there's too many jokes. You never know when another one is coming around the corner. Impacts cognition.)
Somebody needs to tell this guy he is NOT funny, stop it with the jokes
Knowing what we know about his finances, that Trump comment didn't age well.
Too many men in that room.  The sexism and oppression is obvious, no?
That's a little funny, he took two jabs at Trump, and the class didn't get it or they didn't think it was funny because no one laughed.
liked the talk, but can we stop with the trump bashing? so tiresome.
Is this what passed for a business admin lecture at Harvard now a days. Canned pillow talk and clap trap.  The biggest obstacles to people obtaining meaningful happiness  are in order of misery causing: 1. Feminism ( the hate idoolgy that is pumped out of women's and gender studies departments) 2. The Roman Catholic Church 3. social justice.
I'm disappointed seeing that most of the student body is white. Do hispanic and black people not like that class ? 😂😂
Someone’s a salty feminist lol jk jk. I’m pretty sure it’s not like that today.
Indeed look at the content in the newdiscourses channel and site
Their mother is such a kind lady, not everyone would be so accepting of that donor meeting their kids.
The blond lady ie the mom looks so kind. The kids are lucky to have her as a mom.
I'm an adoptive mother. My son's birth mother is definitely and irrevocably one of his "real" mothers. She created him, carried him, birthed him, and she and he will forever share traits, ethnicity, heritage, ancestry, blood. That is real and it matters. On the other hand, my son and I share a lived history. That matters too. We both love him. We are both his mothers.
I saved mine when I was facing cancer so I could have children after treatment.  Then I found out 20-some-odd years later that another family used them when my son told me I was his mother.  Imagine my heartbreak and joy on finding out that I never even knew I had a child or got to raise him, but also the joy of knowing he existed.
Those kids were lucky to be birthed and raised by such a good woman.  She is such a mom!  Everyone wins!
Wow they both turned out so good looking, but the son is SO GORGEOUS
That daughter looks just like her biological mother, the same laugh and smile and everything
Everyone complaining about her being "intrusive" needs to take a chill pill. She waited until the kids were 20 years old. This means that they are fully grown independent adults and can choose how much or how little they wish to see the donor mother.  If she contacted them when they were in high school it would be a different matter but the kids are fully developed and quite capable of understanding that their mother is the woman who raised them and sacrificed for them.
The mother was a very special person to allow the biological mother to be loved by the twins.
I love how Karen, the blonde mother, has completely accepted Amy, the biological mother, into their families life. Making the transition easy and normal. And fostering a complete environment of love for everyone involved. She is a true mother.
Probably the most wholesome form of women supporting women I've witnessed. 👏
Kudos for the mom! not the egg donor. The mom made all these happen. She took care of the kids and she was gracious enough to have the lady meet them.
What an amazing story and a beautiful big family. That mom who raised those kids has a heart of gold.
As a egg donor recipient, this made me hesitant to be open to reach out to my donor. The donor is giving me vibes that she wants to over step the birth mom.. She’s speaking as of it’s her kids. The donor did an wonderful thing by donating her eggs, but she seems to not realize that the twins are not her kids…
Power of genetics. Kids felt they’d known her for a very long time.
I understand her longing but she should have only responded if the kids were looking for her. She didn’t disclose health information out of concern, she did it in order to create a relationship with the kids. She kind of broke the contract in away and it’s a little manipulative. The fact that she feels s sense of entitlement to “her kids” is psychologically not healthy, these kids have a real mom that raised them. Anyone who has raised a child knows that biology doesn’t give one the title of parent. Parenting is hard work, being a fun friend to the kids is easy.
That's such a sweet story and so nice that they all seem to be happy for each other. The mother who raised these children seems to have done a very good job.
Yes but the donor wasn't just a donor. She's also their mother. Thankfully the mother who used the eggs told them about it so they weren't condused or lied to. Then they wanted to know who they came from. It worked out.
 @krystallos81  She's the biological mother. But she isn't the one who raised them to adulthood.
“That donor” is their biological mother whether you like it or not. The children wouldn’t exist without her. Strange that you would address her so rudely
As an adoptee sold during the baby scoop era this is the way its supposed to be :)
I agree and at same time there will be a time when kids grow and if its their need or desire, they will do it anyways   But she def is couragous and loving
​ @krystallos81 She is not their mother at all She is a biological mother only She made it possible but she cant and wont be their mom tho
As you get older, you have to accept that you won't be there for them forever
 @kp361 A lot of confusion here. No, she's not the biological mother. The biological mother is the one who carries the baby in her womb for 9 months. The donor is a donor of genetic material only, unless she's the one raising them, of course.
She was not affraid cause she knows her kids and she raised them well
 @kiran258  great to donate too. I could not get  any kind woman like her
This does not always work out. Look up the story about the 200 people who were related because they were fathered by a sperm clinic doctor!?!?
I’m happy to see that she was able to meet her biological children. The mother was so welcoming, and the children so accepting. This was lovely to watch. Many blessings to all of them.
 @tfairyqueen74 The donor is still the biological mother. The one who carries the baby 9 months is legally their mother but not biologically.
@shuuuuushhshs2698 You're incorrect. Genetic material is exchanged both ways during pregnancy as well as during breastfeeding. The woman who carried them for 9 months and delivered them is their biological mother. I suspect the donor does not have kids of her own hence why she is overstepping in this family's life.
 @Sorel366  @ She’s not over stepping. You are wrong. The woman who carried the children, in this case is not the biological mother, the woman who donated her eggs is. However, legally she is the parent of the children. How can she be over stepping when the legal parent agreed as she knows this is the missing piece to who they are essentially. If you’re referring to epigenetics - the environment in which the fetus/baby lives for 9 months can have an impact on development. So if the woman drinks, smokes, and is malnourished etc. it can have negative effects on the child moving forward. However, the baby will never be her biological child.
 @kiran258  I would hope it would be a rare and cold person that would lack such acceptance. Biology and that connection matters in life. Anyone (with some rare exceptions for very rare circumstances like it not being safe/healthy etc. ) that loves their kids and knowing the impact to their kids would welcome this. Someone not welcoming of it likely needs some deep therapy to figure out their issues.
 @tfairyqueen74 the biological mother is the egg donor. The legal mother it could be assumed carried them ( unless they used a gestational carrier).
She is very kind, she knew her children wanted to know their bio Mom.  She is selfless.🙏
Kids are so lucky to have a two lovely moms 💐💐
seriously, what a beutiful women inside and out.   think of all the mothers that get threatened when their son gets a girlfriend, let alone a biological donor that said "those are my kids!' She got her priorities straight
i still disagree..the kids were happy before now their mom who raised them takes a back seat to the selfish egg donor
 @shayshay9764  She's probably happy because she's on the older side and her kids are still so young, and there doesn't seem to be a father who's around much. She was probably worried who her kids were going to have once she gets too old to function and dies, now they have their bio mom. It worked out well.
 @shayshay9764  your taking this too seriously. All she wanted to do is meet her biological kids and thats it. Plus you dont see any of the kids or the real mom upset with the donor mom?
 @shayshay9764   I though that too but as someone who has both a biological mother a mother who raised me, I can assure you, it's exiting ( and honestly painful too) to meet the woman you are biologically connected to , but nobody in the world can feel as much as a true mother as the person who raised you and has been by your side all your life. That is just irreplaceable no matter the blood or genes.
@shayshay9764  why is she selfish...she selflessly donated her eggs so the other woman could be a Mother
Even if you are happy, if there is a secret or uncertainty in your family, especially around your coming to life, you have to know. Secrets throw a shade on happiness. Even if it turns out bad, I think it is still better to know. I see a lot of people chasing biological parents even in cases when they have no chance to see someting positive, because they were abandoned and or mistreated, still it gives them peace to look them in the eye.
 @shayshay9764   Well, the mom that raised the kids disagrees with you.  Boom!  Time to humble yourself. 3:48 "This is a ray of light that, I think, has been needed for all of us connected to this story."
 @shayshay9764  The kids had a choice to meet her or not.  If you listened to the video they said they always wondered what she looked like because they look so different from the Mom who raised them.  What's wrong with that?  It ended beautifully.  Why do you have a problem with that?
 @shayshay9764  the mum that raised them told then earlier that they weren't biologically related and as told they were on a journey to find their mum so if they hadn't they would feel one missing piece either way so they were just lucky she was also looking. Yes she may have been selfish maybe because she had no one but on the other hand it would have been unfair for her to be anonymous or the mum that raised them to stand back and watch her kids wonder where their bio mum is. It is never a win win situation unfortunately.
This does not always work out. Look up the story about the 200 people who were related because they were fathered by a sperm clinic doctor!?!?
 @shayshay9764  YES! I totally agree!  It's like "That's mine!" once all the work of raising the kids was done by someone else.  Reminds me of the Doctor Suess story of the elephant sitting on the egg for the bird.
i’m p sure she delivered them though, the other lady was just the egg donor.
This is a whole different ball game. This isn't giving up your to adoption, for whatever reason ..this is selling your eggs, your biological children!
His birth mother is his real mother . Please stop . U are his adoptive mother . Both great but stop the bs
 @msgina6655  It'll be my son's right to decide who his "real" mother is to him and what that term means to him. There are adoptees who strongly feel that their APs are their "real" parents and adoptees who very much don't. I'll respect my son's feelings about it either way.
 @msgina6655  That’s the wrong way to see it and very insensitive of you.
 @ew7512   I was given up. I had an older sister too. After I was adopted my mother had another child. My mother has never wanted anything to do with me. I don't know what I did. I was just a baby... Thank you for being a mother. It matters.
 @SonoftheWars  I'm really sorry you've struggled with feeling unwanted. I imagine that's something a person never really "gets over" and you definitely didn't deserve it. You deserved to feel wanted and cherished. Adoption is much more complicated than the general public realizes. My best wishes are with you.
@ew7512   Thank you for your kindness. I have faced some challenges, to be sure, but feeling unwanted is by far the most daunting. I just turned forty five and I still feel some days that I'm a terrified child who just wants to feel and smell his natural mother. I honestly appreciate you.
 @SonoftheWars  I am so very profoundly sorry.  That is  just  beyond  horrible!!
Terrible thing is the adoptive family does not have to contact the original family or even cut it off totally from the child. Child adoption is disgusting.
 @BowieLam-ru1xb  You're right, adoption should never have involved the permanent severing of family ties, much less legally enforcing that. Adoption should also never have veered away from providing care to the small number of children who genuinely need it, to being a for profit industry that is incentivized to coerce mothers to separate from their children.
She is an egg donor. Not a mother.  The woman who raised the children with love is the real mother.
 @szszszsz95395  You're entitled to your opinion about who deserves the term, but you don't have the power to singlehandedly redefine motherhood. If a mother dies during childbirth, is she nothing but an egg donor because she did not get to raise her child? Biology matters. She who creates life is a mother. In our society we have also agreed to allow those who perform the social and legal acts of mothering to use the word. But legal documents cannot erase genetics, heritage, ethnicity, race, resemblance, blood.
 @susangruener6887  Truly it's only part of it. The eggs are not fertilized when they are sold; so it's only part of the equation. The story leaves out the part about their father...was it their mother's husband? Or was the sperm donated as well?
As an adoptee I adored and cherished my mother. It mattered not how we came together, but that we did. No one is in a position to judge who is a “real” mother.  What does that mean anyway? Please people, stop being judgmental.  If you cannot stand in the shoes of another, you may say things that are hurtful and unkind. It’s not your place to declare to another human who is and who isn’t their real mother.
This is a healthy attitude and far too rare. Good for you all.
 @msgina6655  since she was there his whole life. I think it’s her right to be his mother. The other one wasn’t there.
@ that’s common sense …🙄🙄🙄u don’t pick your parents . Nothing in this world will ever change who your biological parents are .  That’s not a hard concept .
Absolutely you're both his Mother's and I'm so glad you shared this! True family is far more than blood, it's bond! Blood family is worthless if it's toxic and there's no love. Bond is what matters most. Whomever we share our lives, love, hearts with, make efforts and sacrifices for, they are family in it's truest sense 🙏❤
You son’s birth mother ABANDONED HIM! That alone is enough for her to loose her rights to be called a mother. She’s just a biological ‘creator’ for me.
You sound like a fantastic adoptive mother. Kudos to you for being secure, respectful and loving. Wish every adoptive mom was like you
He has not one but two mothers who love him. What a blessing. ❤
 @ew7512  You sound so self reflected and like a great mother :)
This is beautiful My brothers adopted. Love him all the same.
Having an open heart to be a bonus Mom is so good for the children.
​@susangruener6887  Same result in the end, happy kids, happy mom's is all that really matters.
​@SonoftheWars I feel that most new parents who choose to allow adoption are often unable to support a child and want that baby to have the best life possible. It's not that they don't want a child, it's often they are too young or poor to see any possible way of being successful as parents.
 @msgina6655  Not clear.  The birth mother (the one who carried them and gave birth to them) is not biologically related.  The egg donor is the "real" biological mother.  However the birth mother is more their mom in the sense that she carried, gave birth to them, and raised them!
@ I’m talking about an adoption… from the biological mother .. not none of these donors or the extra stuff
aww, So you are "yashodha" and she is "Devaki". He has two mothers, he is so lucky.
@ that’s what u say . His mother is who gave birth to him. She may not be mom but that is his mother PERIOD . Any problems with that u gotta take up with GOD
Thank you for adopting, so many children already born who need families.
I would not want them to meet the biological mother. I don't care what you think. It would be devastating to me to be sharing my kids with someone who didn't want kids while i sacrificed everything to ensure they grow up healthy and happy.
This does not always work out. Look up the story about the 200 people who were related because they were fathered by a sperm clinic doctor!?!?
you are adoptive, the woman birth these children not the same thing.
 @susangruener6887  eggs are not children! women loose around 10000 eggs in first 20 years of life
 @msgina6655  Of course not. Yes she conceived and carried them. But she didn't wanted them and wouldn't have had them. They happened because of their adoptive parents, and are a product of their education and fostering. Both matters, but biological isn't nearly as relevant
Are your eggs allowed to be used without your knowledge? It sounds like yours were not donated.
 @nessparadis6948  They were not donated.  I expected to be able to be in my child's life.  I actually expected to raise him.
@royalpitamamma if you didn't intend for your eggs to be donated then why were they used by another family? Wasn't there some agreement/clause put in place at the time?
@aChandni I'm unsure.  I know they were supposed to be held for three years or so...then after I think they get destroyed.  Anyway, I believe my fiance "technically" was paying for the eggs to be stored.  He broke up with me and because he was paying for it, he had custody I think.  (It should be me, since it is my genetic material) At any rate, he created a child without me knowing with my egg and his sperm after we broke up...and his new wife raised my son.  I'm not happy about that, but I am happy that my son seems to be just fine.  This was several years ago before laws were in place to protect people from this situation.  I believe we should have BOTH had say, but I don't know how it is now.  EDIT:  I had assumed the eggs were destroyed, because his wife and he didn't have a child until after that three year time line.  I assumed he was HER child.  It appears he extended the storage and created a child with me and had her raise our child.
 @royalpitamamma  I feel for you but it's just not right to be treated like this by your fiancé and the hospital. I'm not encouraging anything but this kind of situation would normally lead to a court case to sue the person(s) involved. Best wishes for your future.
 @royalpitamamma  The donor people thought they could take the eggs and never tell the child,how selfish!I bet they never imagined Science would catch up!
​@royalpitamamma  Unfortunately, it sounds like you would have needed to file a lawsuit when you split up with your ex.
 @sassylassie1992  Yeah, but I was young and poor.  I would have never known and even if I did, I would have never had the resources to do so.  I just don't understand why he would want to have a child with me after breaking up.
 @royalpitamamma  I don't know why you split up,  but it feels like the ultimate way to control you in a way that he couldn't while you were still together. Or I could just be projecting my own experiences...
 @sassylassie1992  If it was meant to control me, wouldn't he have told me about the child?  I mean my child had to tell me when he was almost an adult.  It feels more like a way to hang on to a lost love... the wrong way, but that is how it feels to me.  I know if I did something like that, it would be because I loved the father and knew they wanted to move on or didn't love me.  At least you still have a piece of them in your life you know?  I don't know.  It was a very complicated situation.
@royalpitamamma  maybe his new wife was infertile and this is the only other option they had for children
 @royalpitamamma  how evil.and mean of him(your ex) to do that!!! He should have no right to have YOUR child with his new wife unless he asked you for permission!!! And why on earth would his new wife want a child with her husbands ex???? Because that's litterally what it is; his new wife had a child WITH YOU and with her husband!!!! The more you think about it the creepier it gets... The only good thing that came out of it is that YOU have a son with your ex, he was just born through your ex new wife, but he is YOUR son with YOUR genetics!!! I hope you get to love him and know him and be in his life without having to be with the woman who "stole" him from you.
​ @royalpitamamma he must have loved your looks, your style, everything about you! And used his new wife to allways be able to keep a part of you!!! And his new wife went along with it for some weird reason, or did she never know that the eggs came from her husbands ex? THAT would explain why she went along with it.
 @mrsTraveller64  If permission was given I was drugged or not in the right state of mind, because I would never give permission to have no contact with my own child ever...never
 @mrsTraveller64  I have no idea.  There are a lot of other reasons she would agree to it besides that, but there is a possibility that she didn't know.
 @royalpitamamma  Exactly! The more I try to understand what was done to you, the more creepy it gets. If I'd be you I'd start an investigation about it, even though it's so long ago I'd want to know how it was possible for a man to use his ex-wifes eggcells to impregnent his new wife and why she agreed to it or was she not told whos eggs it was? Does she know now? Do you know if she knows now that her son is actually YOUR biological son?
 @mrsTraveller64  I only know that my son and his father know.  I know nothing else about the situation.
 @nordette  He is grown now.  I would love to get to know him better though.  He seems to be a decent kid.  I know literally nothing about him.  I would love to know his favorite color, food, hobby etc..
 @royalpitamamma  Ask him! Ask your ex if he told his wife that "her" son is YOUR and your husbands child!
 @royalpitamamma  take him out for dinner and try to build a relationship. It's never too late
 @nordette  He lives very far away and I am not certain I would be a welcome addition to his life.  I don't want to be a burden on my son.  I do love him though.  If he ever wanted to visit, I would do everything in my power to let him know he is always welcome and I would probably just spend the day watching him and may be asking him questions about his favorite things or his education or whatever.  It hurts I missed so much of his life, but if he doesn't want me in his life...I have no business pushing into it either.
@royalpitamamma  just make sure he knows that....also try to communicate with him at least 2 or 3 times a month. Could be a friendly text or quick phone call. Just build up the relationship. Sometimes younger people aren't good at that so you might have to take the lead. Good luck 👍🏾
@samalex9559 No, I didn't find out until many years later.  Although I might have a suit now still, I don't feel that would be the best option.  My son is an adult now and that might hurt him.  Now if my son wanted to sue, I would support him 100% in that decision just because he was the one harmed by not knowing his actual mother in this situation.  (I personally don't think he would want to since he obviously loves his father)  I just want to focus on hopefully getting to know my son and healing the hurts.  I'm more focused on finding out if my son wants me in his life as his mother or not.  In short, I love my baby and support him in whatever decision he makes even if he doesn't know it.
How are you his mother when you didn't have him and just met him? Who was the sperm donor..and what if he comes along and says hi I'm your father..
 @TheFriendlyPsychopath  My eggs were taken out for use when I was to be married to my ex at some later time.  They were fertilized by my ex even though we never got married.  Then placed in another woman and developed.  It's reproduction with extra steps and people.  I know that he is my child because of who his father is, because he is the only one that could have had access to my eggs at all in this manner.  Not to mention, he kinda looks like his siblings that I have here with me.
 @royalpitamamma uhh that doesn’t sound ethical. Something is shady if you didn’t donate them and the company gave someone else your eggs
 @royalpitamamma what a story! Wishing you all the best and a connection with your son.
 @royalpitamamma  wow wtf I hope you receive justice for what happened to You
​ @royalpitamamma ummm so you're saying his wife was like "sure I'd love to carry your ex girlfriends eggs inside me to create a child with her for you"?? Makes no sense. Or are u saying she was infertile & was ok with using his exes eggs❓ & um sounds like u either signed off on your eggs being used or u should have a huge lawsuit
 @WarmongerYT  I never gave permission for my child to be raised by another without me present and if they by some miracle have such proof I was definently drugged or not in the right state of mind.  I have no idea about his wife or what happened there.  I assume nothing about the woman he is with, her health, her attitude, or why this happened with her.
 @RabiaAziz7  Having my son in my life, accepting me as his mother, and spending some time with me every year would be all the justice I need.  I love all of my children.
I am so sorry that this happened to you. I am 34 and have decided to freeze my eggs, but that is a fear of mine. What if they use them for someone else? So many questions… and to hear your story is just heartbreaking. I hope that you get to spend time with your son. May God bless you!
I think what you are thinking is right, he loved you so wanted your child.
Two options here: 1. you are lying … and very badly 2. your fiancee should be in jail, and the fertility clinic should be sued for reproductive negligence … this is totally unethical   But I think you are lying … it‘s nonsense what you are telling … if you really have no clue, what your rights are your life is in trouble …
 @HaseenaChandni  This is the standard for men so cry me a river
I agree with you. There is something fishy in this whole story. How does an ex-fiancé get ownership of eggs - just because he’s bankrolling the rent (storage) doesn’t give him any rights whatsoever. Somethings off…
 @royalpitamamma  that's awful and an abuse of your trust knowing your history of cancer's impact on your fertility
Woah that is a crazy story. I hope you get to build a relationship with him.
Huh. Why are you lying. If this story was true you would've said you sued the heck out of the company that stored your eggs.
Why did you wait so long?  Why did you not use the eggs you stored or gave them to someone you knew?
 @UncleDavesKitchen  First I was busy fighting for my life.  You have to be able to live to produce more life.
 @mrsTraveller64 your thinking with emotion and NOT logic. He likely used her eggs because his partner couldn’t conceive. He knew he had an egg he can use and he had no intention even telling her so it’s nothing about control or obsession. Nothing at all. Most women would never agree to have a donated egg planted into them to conceive if they have perfectly working healthy eggs themselves. Think with logic, not emotion for god same
 @Beyonder1987  it COULD be like you say,but most likely it is NOT. He could not possibly plant any egg in his new wifes womb without her knowing!!! So he couldn't plant his ex-wifes or anyone elses egg there! If they went to a clinic to do it how could he possibly ask them to put his exwifes egg in her,without his new wife found out about it?? And she woyld NOT agree to have his exwife's child planted in her, unless she has a very sick mind of course.
 @royalpitamamma  That is a terrible ethical dilemma. I am so sorry you were hurt by this.
 @mrsTraveller64  He used your eggs without telling and made you missed out on being in the baby life because you are poor? What a cruel and selfish being.
What!!!!! I really really feel for u! What an evil thing to do.sorry I went through that xx
 @royalpitamamma  What a crazy story! It sounds like it should be a movie! I’m so sorry that your ex fiancé did this behind your back!
A lot of those eggs end up down the drain. They’re some doctors who have broken ethical barriers and helped others on the premise that they’re unwanted anyway. So a lot of men and women have children out there they don’t even know they have. All comes down to ethics.
 @maxxitee4761   What do you mean by "down the drain"? If they're being used?
 @APFEL11SAFT  But there is no reason for her to lie in a YouTube comment. Literally nobody involved would see it. There are many unethical things that happen. Her reason for not getting a lawyer makes sense. This is her life, it’s understandable that she doesn’t want to make a big lawsuit. I would probably start a lawsuit in her shoes, but it’s not my life.
​ @royalpitamamma  That is so unfair that he was able to do that and not even tell you about it when you had not even consented to it. the lady in this video found out the loophole of the 'ovarian cancer' to get them to track where her eggs went... She found that tiny little loophole. I am appalled your ex did this BUT always put the kid first. Please do not hurt him with conflict. <3
 @royalpitamamma  The son probably wanted to know where the eggs came from. Please explain your situation to him...
 @royalpitamamma  sue the dad.. tell your son you did not know he existed. that you care about him a lot. tell the son that if he wants, you would sue his dad but that his feelings are the most imporant. not for money but so the ex (his father) knows he wronged you.
 @maazsaeed1677  I believe my ex knows now and I have no intentions of hurting my son ever...I love who he has become.  I am happy with how he was raised even though I ache not being able to see the firsts.
 @royalpitamamma  this sounds like something out of a movie. Sorry this happened to you but glad you have your son.
 @maazsaeed1677   That's only gonna cause a big mess and the whole thing would be made public, even if she tried to keep it from going public.  It would be the worse thing for her son... I can't even imagine her pain.
 @royalpitamamma  now that your son actually exists (right or wrong) it's only fair on yourself and for your son to see more of each other. That bond between mother and son shouldn't be broken. Otherwise, you might live to have regrets later in life. Just saying. It's your decision to make after all.
 @HaseenaChandni  If he wanted that and I was capable, I would in a heart beat.
This sounds very odd. I did egg retrievals and this isn't ever an option unless you sign for it. They are ABSOLUTELY  not allowed to take eggs without permission. I would have this child tested for a DNA match and then sue to facility.
 @Merbella  I personally wouldn't mind testing to know if he is my son.  I don't know how he would feel though.  I am more concerned with his feelings at this point since he here now and mostly grown.  He certainly believes he is my son and at this point that is what matters most...to support him in his persuit of his family wherever that leads.  I am upset about having missed out on him if he is my son though, very upset.  However, I can not change the past.
@royalpitamamma WOW! This is grossly unethical of the Clinic and I agree with others, is definitely liable for suing, and I’m sure most people  would.  I know actress Sophia Vergara was in same predicament with former partner who wanted to use her eggs, she declined and courts agreed rightly so. Sorry but at the same time hope you’re at peace and happy xx sounds like you aren’t too angry?
Very bad that things like this happen. However, eggs or sperm alone are not a life like a fertilized egg is. For many of us the belief is that life begins at conception when the sperm unites with the egg and cell division begins. When frozen zygotes are destroyed or misused, this is tantamount to murder or actually kidnapping. There should be stringent laws to protect frozen sperm, eggs, and zygotes. I strongly question the moral and ethical aspects of creating zygotes outside the womb.
This happens more often than people would expect. Egg and sperm donation  of any kind is putting your child in another person’s hands.
I'd be suing! Not fair that you have a child you never knew about when you did nothing to conceive this child! You're supposed to have a child as a result of sex and as for women we don't spread our seed! Men do! I find it insane that women have to ask themselves if they mothered a child or not like men ask if they themselves have a child somewhere!
 @nordette  that’s what I was thinking. That’s the only thing that makes logical sense of why he would use her eggs.
 @royalpitamamma  “hanging onto you” when you don’t want to be with him anymore, is “controlling you” in a way. This is disturbing
 @EmeraldRaven  some times and some people can't have kids as a result of sex, and that's ok to use other methods, and I'm talking about heterosexual couple who can't have kids naturally...but this situation is wrong cause they use her eggs without her permission
 @royalpitamamma  This is horrible. I believe you have more recourse than you are allowing yourself. Anyway, love to you.
So sorry this happened to you. My heart aches for you. I still think you should sue just to get all the answers. It’s shocking you have to just accept it, it’s theft. They stole your eggs, stole a life with your son. Did the clinic tell your ex he can have your eggs and do as he pleases without your consent? Was he unaware you needed consent? Definitely get a DNA test. But I would hold it off until you establish a bond with him. I’m sure he will understand once he gets to know you more.
 @Tadao-Lao-q6t  I have no idea how things occurred legally speaking, except he paid for them so he had rights to them.  I was under the impression I would raise my child when they were taken.  I never got any information from the clinic.  Everything I assume went to my ex.  At this point, I grieve not knowing my son.
 @royalpitamamma  Wow what a difficult situation. I feel for you. That is incredibly unfair there were not laws then to protect something like that.
 @royalpitamamma  why dont you reach out to him and tell him you would like to get to know him more if he is willing to? you wont get anywhere just waiting and hoping, especially since he might be thinking you are not interested if you don't contact him
That's a lifetime movie….very interested story….ill watch it…and sorry to hear that...
omg how unscrupulous... so wait, what did that clinic tell you? Im so sorry they robbed you of that but in a good turn of events, glad that there is at least a touch of a good ending in that you got to meet them..
 @nordette  That makes no difference whatsoever. It sounds like a loophole.
Pandora's Box. All fine till reality hits. Donor was in law school and needed money. She sold her pearls. How is this a family w/o the father 😢 who sold his seed.
 @royalpitamamma  that is a wild thing to have happened!! Did you confront him? It seems like you could sue him as well.
 @royalpitamamma  You should 100% sue the hospital. Your son has nothing to do with the hospital, so it won't hurt him at all. You have the right to do that! Contact a lawyer immediately please
 @royalpitamamma  wait, how do you know he doesn't want contact with you? There's been no test done? So you don't know if he's truly your biological child?
 @royalpitamamma  Do you think it might have also been because he was paying for it and he wanted to get use out of what he paid for? It does sound crazy but a lot of times when people invest in things, they don't want to let go.
 @The-Oneness11  I thought about that, but it would be very bizarre to then use the egg and make sure it was his son given the family business.  He could have used that egg for any child at any time, but he chose it for that child at that time.
@royalpitamamma  Then sounds like it was a specific trait that you have that he wanted in that child.
Isn’t it a crime to use someone’s eggs without consent. You didn’t donate it right?
 @vkrgfan  I never knowingly donated...no.  I thought I would raise my child with my fiance.  He ended up with my child.  Usually if you donate it isn't to the person you expect to marry maybe someday.
 @nordette  it feels sooo illegal, mean and selfish to do that..
Did they have a father?  I don't recall hearing about that.
Daughter also is.  But I guess depends on your orientation in saying that.
A donor is not a biological mother.  The biological development occurs in the womb.  A donor is a genetic relative because of shared genes.  Like a cousin or an aunt have some shared genes.  Cell replication occurs in the womb.  I am just sharing because this is the terminology used in the reproductive field.
 @LoganGraceHope  like she said. BIOLOGICAL MOTHER. You did all that explaining just to come back around to the point she made. She is the biological mother.
 @LoganGraceHope  a donor is a bio parent...what r u talking about...donation has to done because the foster mom cant have babies physically... Anyone can do gestation...that does not affect the baby...
 @LoganGraceHope  cell replication doesnt have anything to do with the carrier or surrogate mom...technically both are their moms...because they are part of one and the other made their existence possible...
 @LoganGraceHope  It all begins with an egg cell and sperm cell. The rest are just necessities for fetus' survival and growth.
​ @LoganGraceHope  aww. You said that like you thought it made sense. How sad. 😢
 @LoganGraceHope  You clearly failed science class next time use this thing called Google 👌🏻
so who was the father?? He's totally left out of this story.
Exactly… I’m really disappointed that a new studio doesn’t understand correct terminology
 @LoganGraceHope  you tried to make yourself seem smarter than you actually are and failed miserably.
 @LoganGraceHope  .. using your logic,  no child has biological father, because cell replication does not occur inside his body..
She is an egg donor. Not a mother.  The woman who raised the children with love is the real mother.
 @szszszsz95395 she is biologically their mother. Their genetic material is from her. That doesn’t lessen the value of their mother who raised them.
Dios les llama al arrepentimiento. Nosotros pecadores merecemos el infierno por haber roto la Ley de Dios, nuestra propia conciencia nos condena.  Por eso, Jesucristo (Dios en la carne) murió en la cruz. La Ley fue violada, pero Cristo pagó la multa. Él sufrió en cambio, como Sustituto, y resucitó después de tres días y vencio a la muerte. Ahora está sentado a la diestra del Padre.   Arrepiéntase y ponga su fe en la Persona y obra de Cristo,, y entonces así será salvo de la ira de Dios.  “Porque por gracia sois salvos por medio de la fe; y esto no de vosotros, pues es don de Dios; no por obras, para que nadie se gloríe.” (Efesios 2:8-9)
 @LoganGraceHope  If one were to create an artificial womb, which has been done already and the baby gestates in it, would that machine be considered the child's biological mother? I'm just curious to know.
No, she is a mix of her mom and dad. She has a straight face. Her mom has a round face. The son looks more like her.
Nah. She is the children’s caretaker. She is merely raising them.
so you can have 3 mothers. one is egg donor, other is surrogate, womb mother and the third is the one who sacrificed years of her life for ya
I kindly disagree. I'd say the daughter has her own unique, beautiful look.
She is her bio mom she gave her 50% of her dna
Especially since she didn’t contact them. She wasn’t even able to. She told the place she’d donated to about a medical condition they should know about and then said if they wanted to meet her, she was open and that was it. They are the ones who took the step forward to meet. People are so unbelievably sensitive these days.
 @NsTheName  True..but through the mutual friend..she was determined to meet them anyway. “Those are my kids”….not appropriate lol
 @battlerudee  I agree, though I understand where she’s coming from, wanting to know someone who’s your flesh and blood. They’re not her children but at the same they are. It’s hard to push down nature.
I have a child who is 20. He is not fully grown nor an independent adult. Brain still developing still making decisions and learning and growing student who can’t buy alcohol 😅I was like that at 20 as well. It’s a big difference when you’re 28 to 30 and actually “grown”.
 @battlerudee genetically they are her offspring. They were her eggs that came from her without her those children wouldn’t exist so at what point would she not be entitled to say they were her kids too? I have an uncle that was adopted at birth. My mothers family never knew. He found us after his adopted parents passed away. Our biggest regret is that he didn’t find us sooner.
 @RuizCaz I have a 28yr old that isn’t grown so that’s debatable 😂 At 20 though,,. For this instance, they are old enough to know who raised them and who their actual mother is.   The woman who carried them in her womb and loved them as they grew.  They know the woman who donated some eggs isn’t anything more than a donor.
 @ishastrega6851  yeah until she starts inviting herself to events that the birth mother should be attending or popping up unannounced or suggesting they call her mommy etc. it could go south fast. What if she gets jealous of the relationship they have with the birth mom or vice versa? People seem or feel unaffected at first until they aren’t.
 @battlerudee  agree, she also said Christmas is gonna be fun this year. What if they don’t celebrate or want to invite her? Somebody is going to have hurt feelings. You never know someone’s mental health status or how close they are to delusional, overbearing etc.
 @faustopacheco120  - OK! It's a "chill pill" for you. Go and sit on the chill step until you calm down.
What about the woman who carry her for 9 months endured all pregnancy pain and anxiety to gave birth to her, she betrayed the woman who gave her life, love and motherly love, the woman who was there for her for 20 years .  In the old world people sold their child for money, new world is donor egg .
In this era and economy, even 40 is debatable as a truly independent nowdays for a man. And that gap seems getting extended each generation of men. So...
 @NsTheName  Not hard at all, she didnt even birth them. Mother and father are those who raise the child.
​ @tracywatts1459 You would never say that if this uncle was a criminal or drug adict.  Family is about heart, not genetics.
​ @littleme3597 DNA is not family. Family about care and love, many people have our DNA and hate us while a complete stranger for another country might treat us well.
Those are the same people that are full of crap.  They’re not even close to being in her position to understand, beside they’re hypocrites.
 @Rantsack  We are totally able to understand that a women regreted her decision/got bored in her life now wants the glory, recognition and maybe even love from the children she didn't take care one single day of their lives.
Amy has the crazy eyes she seems a little shall we say tightly wound.  A 20 year old law student who sold eggs was probably very career focused.  Probably did not want a family earlier but now that that ship has sailed so to speak she regrets her actions.  She seemed kinda crazy when she said she recalled signing a contract and remembered her mom had ovarian cancer. Opportunistic? Not sure that's the right word but she found the in she was looking for.  Also think this quote is telling @ 4:00 "I always refer to my life as my empty little life because you know my parents are gone and I have no kids of my own and you know I'm not married and I'm thinking what is going on with my life?". So she neglected started a family, life proceeds as it does, and she realized she had not invested time and energy into people so that later in life there are loved ones around you to share life with.  So she kind of selfishly hunted down those kids so SHE could have a relationship because HER life was lacking.  Why didn't she want to meet them 10 years ago? Career too busy? Parents still alive so you don't feel the need? Glad the kids get to know her bc they wanted to, but their mom is S tier crazy and low key selfish.
Ego always wins- this wasn’t a “gift”. If it was she would have left them alone.  I know a man who did sperm donation- all was great until HIS EGO got in the way. He mentally messed with those “offspring” - this woman only needed to advise the company of the history- nope, her EGO in the way. All about her.
 @battlerudee  "Those are my kids" was said second hand by the mutual friend recalling the story, we don't know if she actually used those exact words but even if she did, they aren't incorrect words, you're seriously offended by a story where all parties involved are happy? "Not appropriate" it's actually NOT your business.
 @nameisprivate5429  I turned 29 few days ago and I am sure my mom would agree with you😄Even I have second thoughts many times bcz I can handle stuff but another times I whine to myself although I do that only when I am alone or with mom. It feels stupid that as kids we thought 30 yr old ppl know literally everything .
That’s their real mother I don’t care what government says about  anything God didn’t let u have kids for a reason
Wow commenters here really do hate that donor! People need to calm down and remember both 'kids' had started a journey to find their biological mom, the daughter sent the first text ffs, and they're not kids they're 19 year old adults desperately wanting to know who their genetic mother is..............everything about them comes from her dna!
 @ghostmantagshome-er6pb  no, she's their biological mother and they have the right to know her.
 @rachel_griffiths  Yes, because humans have all kinds of weird behaviors. Including disrespecting the mother that loved them to go live some "wonderlust" feeling by looking for a stranger that only has their DNA. The fantasy of a portal to a new, better life, "what might have been" mind games. These kinds of adoptees deserved a family like the Turpins.
 @stefanisilva2493  You're talking to a donor conceived adult and you are painfully ignorant on this subject. Go and educate yourself
 @rachel_griffiths  Is clear that I talked about a common situation that involves many different kinds of non bio/half bio children (surrogacy, sperm/egg donation like this one or full adoption). Everyone understood it, only you proceeded to pretend you didn't and changed the subject.
 @stefanisilva2493  this is a video about donor conceived people. I am a donor conceived person and that is the subject at hand which I'm more than qualified to talk about 🙄
 @rachel_griffiths  The subject discussed by OP involves all kinds of non tradition means of having a child. Is a psicological/ethical question about looking for the biological participants, you either have arguments pro or against contacting them or not.
 @battlerudee  They are technically her biological kids. This is why we should rethink surrogacy and egg/ sperm donors. Children have a right to know who their parents are when possible.
​ @tracywatts1459  because she didn't carry them it's not the same as someone having a baby and had to put it on adoption, she donated eggs, cells, they medical center put those eggs I don't know if with their father sperm or a donor, without that there wouldn't be children either ,so no, she is not the mother and I bet that if she would had children of her own, she might have those questions about her donation,  but wouldn't seek for them
 @stefanisilva2493  I’m not really aware that drug addicts are out donating eggs . First I’ve heard of that?
 @titandarknight2698  donor egg isn't selling kids . Please enlight me then what is it if it's not selling?
She should have waited forever and stayed away from that family, zero chill, hospital should be fking sued.
 @RuizCaz  Even if these children were only five or older, it’s the mother’s responsibility to provide the children the opportunity if the biological mother wanted to meet the child. Parents have rights to an extent and that’s what parents don’t understand. Being a parent doesn’t give you ownership of the child. Be honest with the child from very early in letting the child always know they were adopted or conceived from a donor is the first step. If the biological parents ever want to meet the child, ask the child if they’d like to meet and if they do, respect it. If they don’t, respect it but let the parents know they’re welcome to reach out at a later date when the child is older. The child may be content with never knowing and that’s perfectly fine. Remember, you were never adopted or came from a donor. You don’t understand nor can ever understand what it feels like to not know where you came from. If you have been an active and loving parent, they’ll never have that bond with the donor like they have with you. My mother kept me away from my father to keep the peace between her and my step father. I was only five when my biological father make efforts to see me. My father was gay and she used that as a way to prevent him from seeing me. Even though she’s my biological mother, she had no right to make that decision for me. I’m 49 now and my mother passed away 14 years ago. I love her and miss her but I will never forgive her for what she did. We always had a relationship that I kept at a distance because I saw her as depriving me of my rights to know my dad. My father died of AIDS and I was never given the chance to have a relationship with him. Parents who prevent their children from meeting their biological parents are not doing it for the child, they’re doing it for themselves. It’s selfish and could result in a lifelong situation where the child will resent you.
The kids said that they always knew of the situation. The mother had td them that she was their mom but they just didn't share genetics. So they weren't just finding out as adults. Also the bio donor never had children OR a family so this is a missing piece for her too. These women gave EACH OTHER a beautiful GIFT. Seems like a win win for all involved.
 @battlerudee   but they ARE and will  ALWAYS  be hers.
 @battlerudee  it's a phrase, take it easy.  If she shouted "those are my eggs!"  you would accuse her of being insensitive and not seeing them as people.  But of course people like you have a lot of things to project onto others.
To think of a scheme like that to be able to see kids, no wonder they're in politics. You can tell just by the way they talk
That's just narcissism. She's gave a few eggs . She is not the mama . She should have left those kids alone.
 @PTRAINBOY  - They are not "kids" and you are the one who sounds like a narcissist. You honestly believe that you get to tell others how to live their lives because you know better than everyone else. Mind your own business. They are grown-ups who could have said no if they didn't want to meet her. They could have said they didn't want a relationship after they met her or at any time they wish to do so now or in the future. This is none of your business. The sheer arrogance is astonishing to me.
Yeah, there's an option for that with egg and sperm donation
 @AnyoneCanSee  It's natural for her to want to know if she had children. That's not intrusive. This is why egg donation and speem donation is a controversial topic. A lot of people end up wondering if they have children out there and most never find out. It clearly was meant to happen and her children wanted to know her.
 @NsTheName  ugh right! Besides, I think in cases like this, there is always an inkling of curiosity to know about the person who shares your DNA... there is nothing wrong when all parties consented to this meetup!
 @krystallos81  get to know them is one thing. But she is saying they're are her kids. Kinda side step what the other mom raised them done. Without going through the hard early years. She did whatever she wanted the first 20 yrs and it didn't work for her.
They're so cute! So is their mother and the biological mother is beautiful too
Based on the kids names, I'd say they are half Arab. Mixed kids always beautiful
 @FayEdelbi they sound more Latino. Fidel is a very common name in Latin America
​ @carlacruz893  They are "Fadel and Nabila" and both names are of Arabic origin.
 @AAGul that makes sense they have an Arab father. The mother is lovely and so kind and selfless, but I’m sorry her son is way more beautiful. They got their beauty from their dad more.
 @AAGul  Idk if the person who did the subtitles missed the mark but they wrote it as "Nabeel and Fidel" (2:16)
they look like me creating Sims 4 characters with realistic skin mod
 @AAGul  Why would they give Arabic names to their children? Makes no sense.
The most wholesome? She refers to her life as her "empty little life"  She has very selfish reasons to seek out that family now.
​ @JanFWeh  She may have had selfish motives, but Karen knew her children wanted to meet her and put their needs first. I assure you that the kids KNOW she didn't want kids. Karen is raising them in nurture of love and forgiveness. Something we all need sometimes
The egg donors get paid handsomely for those eggs and the doctors make even more off the backs of those young women. Nor do the doctors tell the repeat donors about the health risks they are taking when they donate eggs again and again. Nor do they tell the recipients, who go through this process to prepare their bodies to accept the eggs, what the chemicals can do to their bodies if they go through the process again and again and again. Wholesome?
the children (who are adults in their 20s) said they wanted to know who their biological mother was. The children wanted to make that connection and could do it without their birth mothers approval. children have a right to know where they came from, their birth mother with fertility problems cannot expect the children to ignore the natural human desire to know who your BIOLOGICAL family is
 @ChillyMilly908  Yes but the children didnt have the responsibility when they were adopted. ITs a privilege to have good parents. They turned out good because of the parents. The parents was okay to have them meet the biological one.
 @awesomealie8179   ok but if it wasn’t the egg donor neither the 2 kids would be here nor a woman would have the possibility to have a mom. Can we just simply to appreciate both?
@awesomealie8179  They weren't adopted though. Everyone in the video seems extremely happy to be meeting each other, moms included so that's all that matters. The egg donor lady seemed overly eager as she's unmarried with no kids but as the video went on they all get along fantastically, it's a wonderful thing that egg donors are available and willing in this world, without them lots of people would be childless.
Egg donor and "adopting" are different and being a egg donor is not easy, would you easliy donate your eggs to help a stranger 🫣  I say kudos to the egg donor too 👍
​@ReverZe83 That's fine, but let's not gloss over the fact that "egg donors" are generously paid fot for their "donation" . Currently,  it's between $8k - $15k. Hardly doing it out of the kindness of their heart.
​ @acidicsoul4978 It's not exactly "donating". They get paid A LOT for those eggs
Egg donor have biologically 3 parents. The donated egg will have a zoide be put into it then put into the womb of an other woman who will birth the child. So Biologically, egg transplant babies have two mother. Which is why it is sometimes recommended for the egg to be be from an other woman in the family. + People seems to think that eggs are like zoids. Well they are not. Woemn lose many eggs when they are on their periods because the body sense that there is no impregnation. For a baby to be born, the womb need to possess and egg where the fetus will grow, something that some women have a lack of or in less quality.  Egg donation is completely different from adoptation. The egg receiver still birth her own child. Ther egg donor didn't birthed anything.
 @awesomealie8179  you do realize that the mom couldn’t have been a mom without the egg donor right? Not giving kudos to the egg donor is wild
That's the vibe I'm getting she's acting as if she gave birth to them
The bio mom is selfish  sacrificed nothing and taking over the family  another raised, I have thought  about donating and open is good and fine even being seen as family  but should be more of an aunt roll if open
The children will always look for their bio parents,and there will always be a natural bond
 @IdonthaveatwittersoFoff.  No they are not, she sold her eggs. If the kids choose to consider her mother then she can consider them as her kids,  otherwise no.
 @lvt2050  you can’t deny nature….whether she regrets it or not is not the point.
​ @IdonthaveatwittersoFoff.  you cant deny the fact that she didnt gestate the embryo (so no prenatal epigenetics, her uterus didn't influence baby gene expression and there was no mRNA exchanges between the baby in the uterus and mother), she didnt birth them, she didnt raise them. She only has a genetic correlation with them, like a distant aunt who appears after 20 years, looking for a family. I would love to hear an update on this family and how they organize their life.
 @lvt2050    i didn't get a good vibe  from that wannabe "mother" , it feels  like:  i didn't think about my future when i was younger so now im going after my " kids" to see if they can make me company, take care of me or whatever ... anyways,  sounds weird to me...  she's not the mom, she's a donor. thats why in brazil if you're a the recipient donor  you're not allowed  to meet or see pics of the  donor at all  and they dont tell you where the donor is from , prob could be from another state even other country.
 @DaniSilva..  true, I do understand her pain though. My issue is with the pushiness she expressed. It seems like she didn't want to respect their family unit and be a happy extra part but to claim "her" children. Anyway, bad vibes but I do hope they create an arrangement where everyone is happy.
⁠ @DaniSilva.. Washington state changed donor anonymity laws back in 2011, because of donor conceived people their dying from not having accurate family health information. More states and countries have followed since then and more will be in the future.  Why should donor conceived people suffer and have preventable deaths, because of attitudes like yours?  Also over forty million ancestry tests have already been taken. Guaranteed permanent donor anonymity has been gone for years because of that. Over 1,500 genetic communities have already been mapped out.
 @lvt2050 How of that “pushiness” was from her wanting her 19 year old biological daughter to get ovarian cancer screenings so she wouldn’t die from it?  Also the two 19 year olds wanted to meet their biological mother before she contacted the clinic she donated eggs at.
 @86Framer  Not really, by her own words she used her mother death to force contact with kids. "They have to tell them and while they are at it, why not asking them if they want to meet", instead of living her contact and see if and when kids wanted to meet. After that she went to Facebook and proclaimed those were HER kids (without talking to Summers kids ever), and in the meeting where all of them are together she was "oh this year New year will be very different". By the look of the kids mother face, its obvious that they didnt talk about it, she just push herself.  I hope all is good for them, to me  this woman gives vibe of pushy , selfish and grabby but maybe I am wrong and she is totally ok person ready to respect whatever boundaries those kids and their mother put.
 @lvt2050  Her biological children wanted to meet her long before the clinic asked Karen  if they wanted to meet. You should check out the King 5 article about it, which is more detailed. Her biological daughter was curious about her “I never knew the other half of me” are her Nabilah’s exact words.  You’re confusing excitement on everyone involved part with Amy being “pushy”.  Again Washington state banned guaranteed donor anonymity back in 2011 too.  If Amy hypothetically has more biological daughters out there who weren’t told their donor conceived and their parent’s did the popular choice of ghosting their clinic,  Is it fair for those women to suffer easily preventable death’s because of attitudes like yours?
 @86Framer  If they wanted to meet then why this woman need to push the contact in order to happened? Every DC child is curious about the donor, dosnt mean that they want to meet them, but some do not all though.  You are trying to spin this, she send information to fertility Clinique about her mother death, but she didnt do it for the kids, she did it for herself as she said "She was ready". And that's my issue whenever this woman talk its about her, and what she wanted and what she missed etc etc not once you can feel there was "oh this can be good for the kids, oh this might benefit the kids"
 @lvt2050  So, if she pushed for contact when they were 18 (by 2011 WA state law) instead of waiting till they were 19 she’d be more Kosher?  These two did really want to meet their biological mother earlier, but the clinic didn’t have bio mom’s consent.  Meeting your children is a very heavy thing. Just because she might’ve not been able to do it when they were in way kindergartner, doesn’t mean she didn’t become fully ready later.  Successfully using donor sperm or eggs is making that donor a permanent and important part of you family wether you like it or not.
 @lvt2050  Also the decision for anyone to have children wether by only contributing donor gametes or raising them, is a selfish decision.
 @86Framer  its your decision to think that and not everyone truth.
The problem is the biology is way too strong.  There are lots of children from sperm donors who want to know who their biological father's are.  When they are small, people forget they grow into adults and have their own social values and wants.  There is always a bond with your genetics.  A lot of children have found half siblings, and have met their donor fathers.  They all said that there was a bond there.  For me, I wouldn't want anyone to have my biological children, and no man in my family would either.
Also I think you’re just projecting as someone who didn’t have biological children. Because I didnt get that vibe at all
See...I think both moms have right over the kids...god give one mom to us...but these kids have two moms...what can be better than this...obviously those kids knows their foster mom is their mom
 @nabaninandi4140  "foster" is when you adopt kids. She didnt adopt them she took genetic material of one women, lab combine it with genetic material of her husband, then grow it in her uterus for 9 months, then birth them, then take care of them for 20 years, and keep taking care of them. Donor gave an egg. And yes I agree, its nice to have 2 moms, but diminishing birth mom just because of the lack of genetic connection is wrong.
 @KGood28  They are genetically connected to her, but they are not her children, donor lady didnt birth or take care of children.  By law the birth mother is their mother.
Agree 100%. I have been an egg donor six times and each time I mentally and physically know I’m giving my eggs to someone and they are no longer mine. I look at it as I gave cells to another woman that could use them I do not consider her children my own. The donor does nothing to care or raise those children and it’s not their kids.
They are her biological children. The children have the right to know who their genetic family is. Anyone doing the donor route has to accept biological reality.
⁠ @Handfulsofgemstones false, they are not her kids. Like not even a little bit. They may carry her DNA but this woman donated eggs not embryos. Nor are they her biological kids. I get how this could be miss leading. But working in the endocrinology world we do not considered egg donors nor sperm donors “biological parents”. Their mother is the woman that births them and is considered their biological mother even though they do not share the same DNA. Also there’s a thing called epigenetics.
 @Ginamarisa_86  she is their genetic/biological mother- not the birth or raising/social mother, or just mother. The woman who raised them is their mom; the egg donor is the genetic mother. Thanks for your lecture; I hold firm in what I said.
 @Ginamarisa_86  The donor (sperm or egg) is the genetic father/mother of the child. Full stop.
I don’t get that vibe. I wish them all luck and think they all seem to be enjoying this new extended family.
I mean…she literally said in the interview, “I don’t have kids of my own.” At the end of the day, the twins and their mom CHOSE to meet their egg donor and have formed a bond with her. All of them. I’m not sure why this whole chat is so pressed. It’s their business and they seem happy. You don’t have to meet the egg donor of your children someday, she may not want to meet you. No sense in stressing over something that isn’t even a reality at this moment. Deal with it if it comes but until then, love on your babies because they’re yours.
She knows they’re her biological kids and that’s all. Clearly the mother isn’t selfish the  donor would like to be a part of their family and get to know her biological children.
​ @lvt2050 They're not just 'genetically connected' - half of their genes come from this woman. This is a definition of a parent.  The fact that she didn't birth them means nothing.  If you have to birth a child for it to be truly yours, than all surrogate mothers are the real mothers.  Not taking care of your children still doesn't make them not yours - it makes you a bad parent. Laws don't always represent what's true or right. Slavery used to be lawful, too.  The birth mother is essentially a surrogate and an adoptive mother. Both roles are commendable. But doesn't negate the reality of biological mother still being a mother.
 @annakirshenbaum1458  that is NOT definition of a parent. Parent is the one that take care of a child (a person who brings up and cares for another). Giving half of genes is not that much important, if you are not around  a child. If you dont believe me ask adoptees, ask ppl who cut off communication with their genetic families.  In this case birth mother is the one that also take care of the child so by the law a biological mother (yes birthing is a biologicals process what a shocker) and a parent (she did take care of children).  Surrogate is person that birth a child and give it to intendent parents (and that was the plan from the start), the intendent parents need to adopt the child in this case (if they didnt have surrogacy contract before embryo transfer ). So birthing is quite important part of whole process, actually the fact that gestation takes 9 months and end up with a lot of pain for mother maybe even more important that egg donation that last for 2 weeks and there is no pain involved.
The mother won't let the bio mom do that and the kids are adults. what is she going to step in and do?
They are her biological children and her biochildren are very happy to meet their biomother. Many of these cases end up that the adoptive children end up calling both women mother.  Those are indeed her children. That is her DNA.
 @lvt2050  DNA has a lot to say about this. It can not be denied and more than anything that is the DNA that the children came from. Who they look like, who they act like, their interests and hobbies.
​ @beckybarnes8875 lol the DNA MIGHT give you who they look like (not all children looks like their genetic parents), but who they act, interests and hobbies are outside of the DNA. Or you might know what genes are for bicycle riding, genes for knitting? Not to mention that in this case prenatal and postnatal epigenetics plays its role, not to mention nurture. Thats why monozygotic twins (100% genetical identical) differ in personality. DNA is responsible for building the body, size of earlobe, distance between eyes etc but dont give DNA mystical abilities, DNA is not a new god.
Yeah legally. But you can't beat genetics. As an adult she needs restraint obviously but as a mother (which she is) her reaction and behavior is absolutely normal. She sold her children.
Those kids are adults respectfully, if they say they wanted to meet her, it's you that's overstepping by intervening in that, grown adults can make their own decisions and it's better for you to support them on that journey then protest it, because the latter makes you the selfish one.
They are partially her kids biologically because it was her egg, but at least there is no question of the father? Where is the father in all this anyways? Did they even show him?
You're over thinking and defensive. They had the choice to say no. The same with you,.
 @lvt2050  , I agree 100% with you, and got the same feeling about the GENETIC DONOR WOMAN (not bio mom like some people is erroneously calling her)
 @lvt2050 , people don’t know what they are talking about. And they have their own fixated ideas…
Exactly how I feel which is why I'm hesitant with all of this. But kids always wanna know it's just like how they look for donor sperm. They just don't get that it was a transaction. 😊
​@taliabraver I disagree some ppl don't care to know it was a transaction to them.
 @86Framer  easy, just disclose your medical history and respect the other family. its ok to meet them if they are open to it but dont say things like they are my kids because they arent hers. They have a mum n dad and its not her.
​ @KGood28 They are not her children. She didnt raise them. She is a egg donor
 @anonymous-kv2oe  Family health histories change and need to be updated. Secondly, fertility clinics get often get ghosted (not told about a successful pregnancy) at least half the time by the recipient parent(s). Would you be angry if you lost a child because you were part of the 50% plus of donor conceived people who were never told they were?  Lastly, she is quite literally their biological mother. By choosing her to be their egg donor their social mother made her a permanent part of their family.
After donating blood , no one goes around saying it is my blood, so same for the donor ovum.
​And donor-conceived/adopted people have every right to meet their biological family.
lmao then have kids naturally! She DONATED her body! There’s a reason the new mom was extremely grateful!! Without her, no kids! Sheeesh just don’t have kids then.
 @Just-Princess  the children are half her. They are her children too.
 @IdonthaveatwittersoFoff. heres wtf ? Ur talking about natural bond as if we were animals and we don’t have interactions with each others ,that’s what differentiates humans, so basically being a mom include more than just being the biological mom .
it's not going to be up to you to reach out to the egg donor.  The children are the ones who decide, once they are adults, and you have nothing to do with it, nor are you able to prevent them.
 @DaniSilva..  I got your point, but couldn’t that create and result in genetical health issues Incase biological related people who don’t know that they are biologically related got married and have children? Just think about that. I don’t think such information should be kept hidden from anyone, all parties( donors, recipients and most importantly children) have a right to know such critical information.
“Those are my kids!” did not sit well with any of us viewers. Yes she is excited, sorry she is now alone, but I do hope that since their reunion she has been respectful toward their mother’s place in their lives. SHE is their mother and they are HER kids.   I do hope that if you ever meet bio mom it goes well.
​ @lvt2050 😂 "only genetic correlation" lol. Are you serious? You speak as if you take eggs of a crocodile you can change it into eggs of frog.
 @DaniSilva..  that’s cruel towards the kids who the right to know, especially their medical history.
True, Adopted or actually carrying  a child (not your egg) is not the same thing either. I wonder where is the father in all of this ?
 @ПОЧИНЮКУКУХУ  Imagine that,  you need a bit more than just genetic connection to be a parent, you need  love, effort, time JUSTY genetic connection DOES NOT give that per se.
 @anastrawberry8047 could be Said about you. Just because you make the world how it fits better to you
 @lvt2050  The mother is a biological parent. Epigentics has nothing to do with that.  “DNA MIGHT give you who you look like (not all children look like their genetic parents).”  If offspring look or behave like the biological mother or not (phenotype) is irrelevant. Children always inherit their physical features from their genetic parents—they may just resemble a mix of relatives rather than looking identical to their parents. Recessive genes, genetic variation, and random recombination explain why some children don’t look exactly like their parents. Behavior is also fundamentally built on the basis of genetic predisposition, then later changed by environment and learning.  You know what you’re talking about to some degree but massively overestimate your insight in the subject.
 @fabianlindberg7051  thats what I said, children might or might not look like their genetic parents. However, with egg donor babies we see that often (not always) babies look like their birth mothers. At the moment epigenetics is the only explanation, with time maybe other explanations will be developed.    Please share studies where they successfully  decoupled genetic and environment as influence on behavior, and come to conclusion that its genetics in the basis?
 @lvt2050  Now you are making things up.  The claim that babies conceived via egg donation or surrogacy often resemble the birth mother (the surrogate) is not supported by genetics or scientific evidence. The genetic blueprint of the child comes entirely from the biological parents (egg and sperm donors), not the surrogate.  While the gestational environment (womb) can affect gene expression, this does not alter which genes are inherited. For example: The surrogate’s diet or stress levels may impact metabolism, but it will not make the baby look like her.  There is no biological process where a surrogate can transfer her own facial features or physical traits to a baby. This is a myth or at least cognitive bias where people tend to see patterns and resemblances where none exist. Many people share features, doesn’t mean they are related.
She's a lawyer who know her "way". As we could see, she was happy and proud of how she found out their contact, etc. Hopefully she doesn't dominate or affect that kind and generous mother's relationship with her children who seemed to be won over by their outgoing and spontaneous biological mother.
she notified the agency about her health info, not the family. the agency contacted the mother, and the mother told her ADULT children about the opportunity to share their information. the children (who are adults in their 20s) said they wanted to know who their biological mother was. The children wanted to make that connection. children have a right to know where they came from, their birth mother with fertility problems cannot expect the children to ignore the natural human desire to know who your BIOLOGICAL family is
 @ChillyMilly908 No. she stalked them on social media and informed a friend of the family of her identity. She broke the confidentiality agreement she signed. She should be sued!!!!!
She responded when she knew that kids were all raised and independent and no work is needed to raise them. She felt lonely and she conveniently chose this time. Right time for her.
Yep, the birth mother should have boundaries out in place for that donor. The donor skipped all those years of hardwork raising kids and now wants to win her biological offsprings over. Seems very manipulative
The Bio mom is not married, no kids, her parents are gone and she felt empty,,so she searched for the children from the eggs she donated, the intention of finding her bio children is not totally selfless
So happy for everyone. I hope the real mom’s feelings are considered in all of this. She did the hard work of pregnancy & raising them.
Kids always want to find their biological parents. It's an inherent desire.
I’m glad I decided not to use donor eggs, they offered this to me since I suffered premature ovarian failure and had no eggs left. Meaning no way to conceive children naturally. My husband and I decided that the child wouldn’t be ours. It would be his. So we decided not to go through with it.
I don’t think she was right to tell her friend that they were her kids. Their mother may have not told everyone in her life that she used an egg donor.
All good, but this turned a little strange when the egg donator said " Christmas is going to be big deal this year"...  what??? .... the kids have a mother already.
I love that they all came together, and everyone’s happy. Very heartwarming. That said, the egg donor saying, “those are my kids” to her friend is out of line. They are not her kids. She’s just related to them. I hope the mother was okay with hearing that. She seems like a really open person.
She is an egg donor. Not a mother.  The woman who raised the children with love is the real mother.
Im glad I saw this video. I was considering using donor eggs and this just completely assured that I wouldn’t. As soon as she said those are MY kids it was a done deal for me. Ill either use my own eggs or not have kids
Why is it called "donating"?  They're selling eggs for cash.  That's fine but why talk like a hero. It's a transaction.
The blonde lady just became the surrogate who did all the hard work and raised her kids.
Kind of ironic that the woman who is fertile doesnt have her own child, yet she donated her eggs so that another woman who  is unable to have offsprings can have children. Back in the day it was probably the opppsite happened: the woman who is infertile would die alone and the woman who can have children would have her own family
This isn't the feel-good story that the video makes it out to be. When you become an egg donor, you waive your rights to any offspring born from your donated eggs. This woman is intruding on a family she has no right to reach out to. Those kids might carry her genes, but she is not their mother, and she shouldn't be pursuing a relationship with them. She should have had her own kids if she wanted to be in a maternal role so much. It would have been a different story if the kids were the ones who initially sought out their egg donor, but that isn't the case. If I were the birth mother, I would feel upset that the donor is overstepping her bounds and trying to wedge herself into my family.
this is weird.. the kids don’t respect the mom and the donator doesn’t respect the woman who BIRTHED TWINS, raised them and just because this donators life didn’t turn out the way she thought and she was lonely, she came “swooping” in
Poor lady, she felt lonely then remember she donated her eggs.
Oh god, I could never ever donate my eggs thinking that those children will be raised by someone out there …
As a med student I just ethically cant comprehend this at all
The mom spent thousands upon thousands of dollars raising the twins then the donor mom comes in and is a super hero after doing and spending nothing.
It is selfish. She just wants to fill a hole in her life. She's very pretty so I thinks it's obvious that's it's her crazy eyes and unhinged personality that are the reasons she's lonely and single.
 @LoganGraceHope  She can still get married. She is probably in her early forties.
 @LoganGraceHope Amy has been my best friend since the seventh grade and she has a beautiful soul, and those  children absolutely adore her! She also  has a very good relationship with their mother, also.  It’s really sad how people that know nothing of their situation have so many foul and hateful things to say!
 @mariavelasquez5857  It's even sadder to pretend you actually know the person and double down by making scenarios like you are doing here xD
 @daviddegea3373  ​​⁠ yeah, that would be pretty sad, so when ya do some investigation and find that person who is pretending, then ya can let them know! 🤗
 @mariavelasquez5857  ​ @mariavelasquez5857  The onus is on you to prove here xD Any random person can claim something and why should everyone else have an onus to prove you wrong when you have shown nothing to prove yourself right?   The original commenter felt that way because it is actually how it is shown in the video. A sad single lady who now feels they are her children because of something called a biological clock that has run out.
 @mariavelasquez5857 im sorry but thats awful, why wouldnt she wait until the children look for her. I assure you that if she was married and with kids she wouldn’t have thought of reaching out, selfish all The way,
 @martham.83  ​​⁠Awful defines as very bad or unpleasant, and that is most definitely not how the story has played out. All involved are very happy! A story doesn’t always play out how ppl in the comment section believe it should! 🤗
 @clarnichana9406  dude open your eyes and see what happened.  The person made the claim. Then the onus is on the person making the claim. Stop deluding yourself by half reading conversations made months ago and making up your own scenarios and arguments in your brain.
 @mariavelasquez5857  but how the story played out is  according to a random comment claiming to know the person xD yeah we belive your fanficion to be TRUE.
 @daviddegea3373  Well, what ppl choose to believe is quite irrelevant to me! 🤷🏻‍♀️🤗
This is today’s culture where women are taught to be independent and not get married and not have children. Now she is in her 40’s and is lonely. Feel bad for her but she missed out on being able to have her own children.
 @mariavelasquez5857  doesn't seem that way because you chose specifically to interject with your fanfiction xD
 @clarnichana9406  lol aren't you doing the same thing? Like I said. Nonone is obligated to belive fanfiction on the internet just for the sake of it. If she has a right to say it so do I. You're not obliged to get pissed off over it. Cope and get over it.
I disagree, I’ve no doubt she wondered about her kids all their lives, but it’s not easy to reach out. Don’t let the details of the situation make you believe it was totally selfish. When you give birth to someone you feel connected to them and it’s torture not knowing about them
 @UnmaskingPTSD  Why would she have to be selfless? Her decision to contact her children was good both for her and the others. There is nothing wrong with seeking things out for yourself as long as you don’t hurt someone else.
 @RussDaChamp  you don’t know that. A) she might not be lonely B) she can still get married if she wanted to. C) you don’t know if she’s able to have kids or not, women don’t reach menopause till their 50s+. stop making assumptions about strangers!
“ when I thought 💭 how am I going to get to them ?!  Then aha I remember… my mom has a cancer and I have to tell them “ 😂😬
 @RussDaChamp  this is so not true. I have tried so hard to find husband since the age of 21. I am now 37. The position I found myself in is not my fault. And no, I didnt date bad guys, players, etc
​@LoganGraceHope  how does she have crazy eyes? She looks good and so do her kids. And where is the dad?
 @daviddegea3373  Theres no onus on anyone. She said her piece, she doesn't need to prove anything to you lol.. this is the internet.
 @BarryAllen-no9nj  yeah and i did the same. It's the internet and she tried to write a fanfiction about the lady. And i called crap.
No, not at all. It'd definitely not a mentally healthy move.
 @daviddegea3373  Its fair to say you won this argument.  I'm just surprised you're still replying to people after nearly a year, lol.  Low effort for them but much more for you.  So wouldn't worry about it too much for the next dissenting comment to pop by.
 @Bl00dMalice  lol The thing is I dont have a lot of notifications on Youtube. And unfortunately I am a bit petty. lol
Don’t think so. I think real mom is gonna get pushed aside. 🫡🇺🇸
 @Teeveepicksures  we salute mother England for giving us the west 🫡🇺🇸🇮🇱🇬🇧
​ @Teeveepicksures unfortunately humans always want their real parents. The relationship the kids had with the woman who raised them will never be the same
@ when you have nothing to do with Israel, yes it does. 🙄
​ @lordtyrus1 That's a very dark way to look at it. It's not unfortunate at all for children to want to know their biological parents. It's a beautiful thing and it doesn't mean they will push away their mother who raised them. It just gives them the missing piece they needed.
 @lordtyrus1  Wrong. It more than likely be better with 'the woman who raised them' because she is the one who birthed them and IS their mom. The donor just provided the genetic material but she doesn't really know them like their mother does. And, for many women, there's also the father. And the fathers are connected to the mothers (most are married) thus them always being a part of the family.
 @leahtv7778  I know it's true. It's imprinted on the human soul to want to know your real parents.
I know a few adopted that have no desire to find real parents. They were very thankful for.their adopted parents.They've never did research to find out.
 @arfriedman4577 deep down they do. They’re just not ever going to say it
This is why only orphans should be adopted, not those abandoned
 @KhadidjaKhadouj-ur4ke  some orphans have parent(s) that left them in orphanage. Coco Chanel father put her in orphanage.
They don't always.  My brother, now in his 60s, loved and revered his adoptive parents, my parents.  He has never had any desire to know his biological parents.
Not always. My adopted brother said he never wants to meet them. You just always hear about the ones that do & that's why it seems so.
I have several adopted friends. All of their adopted parents have passed. Their adopted parents were all open to them finding bio parents but only one wanted to. That friend met her bio mom, said she was a nice lady, but that she had not wanted to continue a relationship. Her bio mom had other children she had raised and wanted my friend to meet them and stay in touch but my friend declined. My friend found out the circumstances of her birth were extremely sad. She had asked her bio mom, so bio mom answered, but it was so sad my friend had difficulty hearing it.   She was glad she had met her because it gave her completion, but she felt she already had a family. She said as she left she felt very blessed to have been adopted because the circumstances surrounding her birth were so horrendous.
I have an aunt that used donar eggs.  The child has so many issues. Always sick :(
​ @catherinethemba  Lots of things happen on a developing baby to just claim randomly it was one thing in specific, It's more important the surrogate mother's body.
They would be your kids because you would have raised them.
Exactly my thoughts I’m single but I’m gonna try and hurry and have kids cause this story made me very upset. They really want to act like this woman didn’t raise them and that the biological mum didn’t only come around now cause she was a lonely fart. If she was married or successful would she still want to be their mum so bad
 @richild3967   she never said she wanted to be their mother, what are you going on about?  She was just curious to know how they turned out.  The children agreed to meet her, as is their right as adults to decide.  Their mother has no right to prevent them.
Maybe the mother invited the donor mother. You don't know that.
Maybe egg donator means that it is going to be big deal for her because usually she celebrates Christmas alone
i think she means for HER since her family is dead as she plainly stated so obviously hasnt bought gifts for any family in a while since her mom died…common sense isn’t common huh?
 @samaraisnt  Yeah, maybe, but bad moment to make that kind of comment, sounds a little bit weird.
 @deerhian  Yea, left a bad taste. I feel she's gonna insert herself heavily into the kids life, especially the daughter's.
Ok, but biologically they are hers. You aren't in her shoes to control her. Who cares how she phrased it.  Everyone is happy so .... Why try to rob another of their joy? Live and let live.🙏❤💫
 @lmc2375  because it makes a lot of women who are trying to adopt or need a donated egg afraid to go through with it, because they have women like this who just donated a cell talking about them being her kids.
​@mikapb and if this woman didn't "just" donate her cells they wouldn't have kids at all
 @AbiSaysThings  and?… Would you call a surrogate the mom, because if the surrogate didn’t “donate” her uterus, they wouldn’t have kids?
 @mespb  no because they’re not biologically related so your point is
 @jbnbdar3528  there’s actually epigenetic effects that occur due to surrogacy, so there is some “relation.”
 @jbnbdar3528  it’s not rare. It’s just what happens. That said, the other person’s point was that she couldn’t have a baby without the help of the donor egg. Same goes if you have a surrogate. I just think it’s weird to call them her kids when she didn’t participate in any part of what it takes to make a child, besides a cell. It’s also harmful for parents who want to use these options, but then aren’t seen as real parents.
 @mespb  I’m not saying that the woman is right for calling them her kids but when comes to surrogate eggs it’s won’t be be exactly the same as having your own eggs but everything comes with risk but whether you like it or not they still carry her dna and that’s okay and she’s not trying to take those from there mom but I think most people would still be curious on who the family is that you helped make kids
 @jbnbdar3528  I agree with everything you said. I just think she’s wrong for telling her mutual friend those are “her kids.” If she said, “those kids are the result of me donating my eggs,” or “those kids are biologically related to me because I donated my eggs,” I think that would be fine.
 @mespb  that was insensitive on Her part she definitely could’ve worded that differently but I’m pretty sure they all get along cause there’s more than enough love to go around but I hope she is able to birth children of her own someday
Exactly. Those are not “her” kids. They are the kids that resulted from her donating eggs but they aren’t hers, she didn’t raise or care for them. She’s not a mother.
​ @mespb  the surrogate mother is the biological mother.  The genetic mother that donates the eggs are donating more then a cell.  Would you tell a father they just contributed a cell if they said they were the biological dad.
 @helenahanley  that is literally how it works. I’ve done IVF. I also have a degree in biology and ran a lab in a top-tier university in medicine. It’s an egg that you’re “donating,” and that’s it. It’s one of the largest cells (haploid even), but it’s still a cell. And yes, I would say the same thing for a sperm donor. Sure you could call her the genetic mother, but the only people who should be allowed to say that are the mom, dad, doctors and children. Not that lady.
 @lmc2375  but she only have egg their mom carried kids in her Womb for 9 month and delivered babies and raised them
 @mespb cuz they are her kids. People who can’t handle the truth maybe shouldn’t adopt or whatecer
​ @ultravioletpisces3666  she didn't adopt, donor recipients carry and birth the kids. Also read about epigenetics. All you do is discourage people from adopting at all with this attitude, it's no win situation, especially for kids.
The egg donor was entirely right by saying, "Those are my kids." She meant it in the context of relationship (as in I'm the bio mom) not in ownership as they are 'mine'. Let's stop being so judgmental, shall we?  It's a great story.
 @irismckay6472  she’s not the bio mom. She’s the genetic mom. Bio mom is technically who birthed them. People have a weird obsession with genetics. It’s great to know where your genes came from, but it’s not her child. I can see a woman who gave her kids up for adoption more okay with saying this, but she didn’t even do that. This woman is lonely and wants to have a family even though she did nothing to have that happen.
 @mespb  Without the egg donor, those kids wouldn't even have existed in the first place. By your logic their father also isn't really their father because he didn't carry and birth them?
Nah I disagree. Those are her kids, they come from her DNA. Just because someone else raised them doesn't mean they don't belong to her. This is another one of those obvious answers but political correctness is changing what's obvious.
They ARE her kids in every way,  shape& form lol.  They carry HER DNA 🤦🏽‍♀️she just didn't give birth to them no other way to put that? ...🤔🤷🏽‍♀️  But legally those are the other ladies children just as much.  And of course the love she poured into them.
Donor is not mother. She is just donor. The real mother raised them.
@szszszsz95395 Call it whatever you like. Those kids share her bloodline and there is nothing you can do or say that will change that.
 @AsMr-km6ex  Well, the Newscast for one.  They kept referring to them as "her kids" when they are not her kids, they are mearly her offspring.
It's not up to you. They're all happy regardless of your insecurities
 @KhadidjaKhadouj-ur4ke  Seems to be pretty important to all involved in this video.
 @szszszsz95395  you can say whatever you want that's still their mother.
Just curious as to why you were considering using donor eggs if using your own eggs was an option?
Don’t let one bad apple ruin it for you. The donor here was out of line. Those are not her kids, she didn’t grow them or birth them she was just the donor.
 @aw1043 But you have to admit that there is a natural bond with people you know who are genetically related, whatever the circumstances. That’s why people are so heartbroken when they can’t have their own biological children. Otherwise adoption would be a more common option. Also the reason why adopted people long to know who their biological parents are.
 @ace6285  I completely agree, these types are situations can be challenging but if you want to be mom then it’s probably worth it.
​ @aw1043 Those are absolutely her kids. They are hers genetically even if she didn't carry and birth them, or raised them, or loved them, and overall neglected her responsibility of caring for them. Moreover, her parents are these kids' grandparents. Her siblings are these kids' aunts and uncles, and their kids are the cousins.  Pretending that biological bonds don't exist is delusional.  If they didn't exist, adoptees and donor kids wouldn't be obsessed with finding out their real parents,  their lineage, where they came from.  Having said all that, I don't deny for a second the role of a loving birth mother or adoptive mother. It's just that we need to stop pretending that genetic bonds are negligible. Falling in love with their sibling is every adoptee / donor kid's worst nightmare.
Get over yourself. Those ARE her kids. Facts don’t care about your feelings.
 @ace6285  I disagree, plenty of people have no connection, bond or anything with people who are genetically to them
 @floriiiii-tu3pr  I agree with that. But that’s because of some sickness somewhere in the family.
​ @ace6285 Natural bond my ass. Most people have issues or are blase with most of their family members while love some complete strangers. Family is about love and care, not DNA. We even love creatures of completely different species (dogs, cats). What we see in most of this cases of "I want to know my origins" is a form of wonderlust, just a way to create a new reality and probably a new life by acquiring another family or discovering something new about your story. For wanting bio kids, projection. We want kids to be the ideal version of our own selves.
Most scenarios they never meet. That’s why this is on the news. I’ve never heard of this happening anywhere else. You can have it he completely anonymous.
 @aw1043  she was not out of line. Her mother died from ovarian cancer which can be hereditary. Her biological children deserved to know. And it appears that the biochildren were very happy to meet their biomom. Win-win. In the end it isn't about either mother, it is about what the children want.
 @floriiiii-tu3pr  that is not true. It may be that they get a certain talent, hobby, taste in food, that they have in common as a connection. There is no denying that.
 @stefanisilva2493  talk to the millions of adoptees whose identities were taken away before they had a choice to who their parents were. IT is not the same.
 @beckybarnes8875  What is your point? Biological children have zero choice about their parents too.
​ @ace6285 true but she came on extremely strong right off the bat. It's a little weird and jarring to hear her say she's a mother and that those are her kids...maybe after a few months of building a bond, sure, but before even meeting or knowing there were two?! It's pushy
Not all donors are as unhinged as her so if it’s something you truly wanna do, do it. As a person who considered being a donor, I’d never ever barge into the kids or the parents lives. If they sought me out and found me, cool. But at the end of the day the donor recipient carried the kids, birthed them, and raised them. The recipient would always always be the mom and for this donor to try and say they’re her kids after the kid’s mom put in all that work and love over the years is plain nuts.
 @rachel_griffiths  she may biologically be their mother but she didn’t raise them. She didn’t birth them. The other woman did. That other woman deserves the title far more than someone who swooped in later out of loneliness or curiosity.
 @strawberrytiramisu  "Deserves the title"? It's not a contest! She is their biological Mother (fact). The other woman who birthed them and raised them is their Mother, they are both important in different ways.
 @rachel_griffiths  I never said it was a contest though? More so that even if the donor is biologically the mom, the one who raised the kids is the donor recipient. She carried, birthed, and raised those kids. I don’t think it’s right to come in and say they’re your kids this and your kids that if you donated eggs. Most recipients would be turned off by a donor doing that. Yeah they’re important in different ways, I never said they weren’t. Fact of the matter is she came in and made some statements that could be seen as a big no no when you donate eggs. It’s fine to meet the kids if the kids express it’s what they want once they’re adults. It’s different to insert yourself in their lives because you want to. In this case, both wanted to meet so there’s no issue with that. The issue lies with how she words some things.
 @strawberrytiramisu  Like most people who know nothing about this subject, you're centering the recipient parents rather than the offspring 🙄. As a donor conceived adult I will never agree that I am not my biological father's daughter. I am. Fact. My Dad (who I love) may not like that fact but that is his problem, he should have considered that when he and my Mum decided to use a third party to have a child.
 @rachel_griffiths  How would you know that I know nothing on this subject? You don’t know me lmao. I’m considering the recipients and the donor on top of the kids. The kids should be able to choose for themselves if they wanna know the donor or not. Now if you see your bio dad as your dad, that’s you. Not everyone is like you, duh. Some people will see the donor as a parent and others won’t.
 @strawberrytiramisu  Everything you've just said has made me even more certain that you know very little about this subject. Educate yourself, Google is free. Start with 'We Are Donor Conceived' and read about donor conceived adult experiences and our thoughts about our biological parents. End of chat.
 @rachel_griffiths  I’m apart of many subreddits about this topic not to mention I’ve studied it and it’s caused me to not wanna be a donor anymore. Again, you don’t know me, you don’t know my background. My family is full of donors and donor conceived people. Some have relationships with the donor and think of them as second parents and others don’t. Seems to me like you feel as if your personal case speaks for everyone else. Maybe, I dunno, broaden your horizons?
So you want the ultimate gift from another female but you don't want it because you're selfish. Maybe just don't have kids. It's probably a sign that you can't.
Agreed. Who cares for raising the kids who will run to another woman calling her mom when they are all grown up and self sufficient. If the birth mothers are so great then they should raise those kids themselves. A thankless job if you ask me.
Xactly ! I plan on doing IVF, my doctor suggests donor eggs, but I won't. I prefer mine. Otherwise I'll adopt. If it's not my eggs, I'm not having any IVF
I get what you are saying. The real mom is the one who raised them, and she is stepping over that and claiming these kids as her own. Not good. There is a problem there.
 @ace6285  Wanting to know where you came from isn't and being excited about it isn't always bonding. The kids are excited, and the biological mom is lonely. I don't see such a bond there.
 @rachel_griffiths  , sorry, but those are not the correct terms.  You can say it however you want, though.👍😊
@anastrawberry8047  I am a donor conceived adult who is active in the world of donor conceived people's rights. I assure you, most DC people use these terms but by all means ignore DC people. The donors are not our parents but they are our genetic Mother or Father. These are facts which some recipient parents are willingly ignoring at the detriment to their children's well being.
And they portray her as the special person here but the parents who spend their majority of their lives talking care of their kids are not recognized here
 @book_worm22  maybe she just said "KIDS" as in her biological children. It may sound like she's saying she raised them because it's often use to call children that you have raised.
 @book_worm22  Well, those kids belong to both of these wonderful mothers, the mother that raised them, and the biological donor. ♥️
Why use donors when you have your own? Makes no sense
​@nsanejane7713I think she meant due to fertility struggles she looked into the option, but now discouraged from it. In some cases doctors suggest using donor eggs during IVF.
​@ace6285 If DNA didn't matter, open adoptions wouldn't be encouraged (all adoptions should be open btw), and the foster care system's primary goal wouldn't be trying to reunite children with parents that are unfit.
what's the point of donor eggs? Might as well adopt and skip the issue of pregnancy
Those kids wouldn’t exist without her.  Those ARE her kids.   And you’re completely ignoring the kids saying themselves they felt an unexplainable pull to her - you can argue the semantics of nature vs nurture but at the end of the lie the blood connection doesn’t disappear just because you, the mother who raises them want to get territorial with kids you don’t have flesh & blood connection to. You don’t own how your children feel - so yeah you shouldn’t exploit another woman’s body for your own personal gain & then get pissy that they feel some entitlement.
Hi, I feel the same way I hope i dont have to use donor eggs but i was very reluctantly considering it and after this video i know for sure i will not . If I have a problem conceiving I won't have children. It would break my heart knowing i couldn't have kids of my own and then raising children as if they are my own just to be reminded in adulthood that they aren't mine and they want to find their real mom. I don't blame the kids i feel every child should be with their biological parents in a perfect world but that would be a double heartbreak for me.
@magentateacarlton7740 I’m in a similar boat here and, yeah, after watching this video I will never ever consider donor eggs as an option. Just watching this blonde mom who carried, birthed, and raised them to adulthood and might still be supporting them through college get cast aside for the egg donor who manipulated her way into their lives makes my heart hurt.
Because donating eggs is about a 40 day process for a female compared to the time involved for a male’s ejaculation. The egg donor has restrictions including undergoing anesthesia.
 @CristinaAcosta  and? the process is more difficult and ardious... its still a transaction. Its by defenition not a donation.
 @CristinaAcosta  Not commenting on process but on people calling it a donation when they are actually selling them for cash.  Would be like saying I grew a garden full of food all summer and then donated it all .. for $4000 in my pocket.
Not all egg donations are for money. Some of them are really for just donations.
Because the donor isn't selling her eggs to the intended parents. She's donating them to the parents. The intended parents are paying the clinic, not the donor. The clinic, in turn, pays the donor. The money is to pay for your time, travel, and effort, not your eggs, which would actually be way more than a couple thousand dollars.
Not always for cash. A hospital near me was asking for ova donations years ago, no financial transaction, but rather help for someone who had no eggs but could carry a pregnancy. I knew two people who donated.
I nevee knew eggs are sold. I thought they were donated.
There are people who wouldn't do it for any amount of money so it's still a generous act, paid or not. Just like plasma. But I also liked your comment because I agree with you too 🤭 sold is sold.
 @elezhahudson2977  C'mon... not even you believe in it. 5-10k is not for ''your time and effort''. You do it for the money. And so do men, but they have it easier and therefore are paid much less.
@allwhatilove914  Lol, the eggs aren't being sold to the donor. I believe that for ethical reasons, the proper term is donation. And you are definitely being paid for your time and effort as well as your eggs. The process is very strenuous. It doesn't matter what you're doing it for. It takes time and effort.
Sure it's a transaction, but it still ends up fulfills someone's dream to be a parent when they previously couldn't & wouldn't have been able to without egg donations.
It's a transaction and she got someone else to raise her biological child. A total win for her.
 @elezhahudson2977  lol, the woman got someone else to raise and provide for her children, like a cucco bird.  Yes, she damaged her body by donating those eggs, but it worked out in the end.
@tarnw3301  An egg isn't a baby until sperm fertilizes it. So she's not getting someone else to raise her child. The logic behind that is so insanely wrong that it's embarrassing. Hopefully further explanation isn't needed and you're just trolling. If further explanation is needed, you may need to research why women choose egg donors, why women donate eggs and how the process works.
 @elezhahudson2977  hahaha, that's her genetic material surviving and if things work out better, reproducing in the future.  And someone else did all the hard work.
@tarnw3301  This isn't a battle of who is doing the most work. The donor donated eggs. That's all she had to do. What else did you want her to do? Have the baby and raise them? 😂 That's not what a donor does.
​ @elezhahudson2977  You have the patience of a saint. These people have no idea how egg donation works.
@ktw70  😂 Someone has to make the donor the villain every time.
 @CristinaAcosta they charge heck of a lot 💰 for the eggs. They don’t donate it they SELL it.
In my case they ripped me at night sedatedly in hospitals. Clone sons Harry Windsor,Barron T., Robert B. Jr. It SUCKS! Damage compensation keeps refused to me. I did nog sell my eggs for cash, the organtrade cashed it all.
What's your problem?  Sperm donors are called donors, even though they receive cash.  And sperm are much more plentiful and easier to donate than eggs.
 @Whoisthatns They consider it a donation because the amount of money given is supposed to equal the inconvenience of undergoing the procedure.
Interesting that you seem resentful that Amy might have received money for her part as the egg donor. I wonder how you feel about organ donation... where the "donor" is literally parceled out piece by piece and their family gets nothing...not even help with funeral expenses... yet the doctors, hospitals, donation companies literally rake in tens of thousands to millions in the "donor" process.  As a female that has given birth and experienced the joy of raising my children, I salute both of these women and their journeys to bring those beautiful twins into this world.
There is no woman who will die alone if she does not give birth. We have family, friends, and a husband, and we can adopt if we want.
The kids wanted to meet their biological mother and thankfully their mother told them they were donor conceived. Because if she didn’t, her daughter could’ve had an easily preventable early death.  Also, The Fertility Industry doesn’t keep track of the health of egg donors. Because they tend to have significantly higher chances getting cancer and infertility among other issues (not something they want the broke college girls they prey on to know about). Also…she might have been unable to have children of her own, because she donated eggs.  Governments are changing the laws because of the bad things The Fertility Industry has done.
The kids 9 times out of 10 would eventually get curious and want to meet her, so it's a blessing. The adoptive mother seems very selfless, and just wants the best for her kids and for them to be happy. Adoptive kids raised well, love the parents that raise them, and won't forget the love ever! So it's not a threat, but a gift. This opportunity may never had taken place if the bio-mom got sick or died. As humans we are able to love many people at once, so why not share the love when the relationships are healthy. God bless!
If you feel that way woman unable to bear children shouldn’t let doctors play GOD. The children are not material. I’m glad their mother didn’t have a selfish attitude like yourself otherwise they’d still be searching for their mother. SMH
I get what you’re saying, but not sure you listened well. She told the donor agency that the kids could reach out to her if they wanted to. They could have very well chosen not to pursue it. And the daughter clearly stated she has long had a desire to find out. Idk if the donor went about it the best way, but she didnt force them or harass the family… it’s a complicated situation.
One doesn't 'own' their children when they are adults so they should be free to make their own important decisions including whether they want to meet their egg donor or not.
She is the biological mother. They have their mother that raised them that loved them. They now can have both their bio and adoptive mom in their life IF they want to. This is't about the mothers anymore. These are adult children who were very happy to meet their bio mothers.
lol you ok??? Did you watch the video? The kids did look for her, they literally say it in the video. There's no overstepping in politely trying to get to know the people who you helped bring to the world, they are her birth children, regardless of how you feel about it. It's not like she walked into their house uninvited and started to boss them and tell them to call her ma or something lol You should write a strongly worded letter to them or sth, if you are so upset
They gave the info n met her She simply put the offer out My goodness
 @littleme3597 not an adoption? When u take on a child or baby not urs, ur the adoptive parent, not bio parent  They have not 1 drop of their adoptive parents in them, just the bio parents. The adoptive mom was the nursery for a baby not hers. Then she/they (if husband stuck around) raised it.
Those "kids" are 19. She didn't come into their lives when they were 5..
Something isn’t right, at 1:55 that face expression and twitching gives red flag. Something seems off with the vibe of the  biological mother.
@valoxsen6003  The children have rights too. I'm afraid they will never be 100 percent yours . They are not possessions.
Dude, but that IS the case. Girl said when she was like 13-15, she wanted to find mother. How can you ignore or manipulate like that. Also, those kids were ADULTs, 19 years old, and everyone looks happy. Besides, good to have someone to go for help. Since she doesn't and prolly won't have kids etc., that means she could help them if they need it, and good relation helps.
True, the birth mother is overly kind to accept that donor to barge into her family like that. I get it if the kids were pushing to meet their biological mom but in this case the donor forced herself onto the kids
Exactly what I thought too.. She was lonely, Had the letter and reached out. I got those vibes when they first started talking with her.
I kind of agree. At the same time, it’s clear that the children (at least the daughter) wanted to know about her “other half” (her words)
how awesome is that. I never had children...this makes me wish I donated, Ha!
Ladies, never waste your eggs. Donate, leave your legacy on this globe.
Amy has the crazy eyes she seems a little shall we say tightly wound.  A 20 year old law student who sold eggs was probably very career focused.  Probably did not want a family earlier but now that that ship has sailed so to speak she regrets her actions.  She seemed kinda crazy when she said she recalled signing a contract and remembered her mom had ovarian cancer. Opportunistic? Not sure that's the right word but she found the in she was looking for.  Also think this quote is telling @ 4:00 "I always refer to my life as my empty little life because you know my parents are gone and I have no kids of my own and you know I'm not married and I'm thinking what is going on with my life?". So she neglected started a family, life proceeds as it does, and she realized she had not invested time and energy into people so that later in life there are loved ones around you to share life with.  So she kind of selfishly hunted down those kids so SHE could have a relationship because HER life was lacking.  Why didn't she want to meet them 10 years ago? Career too busy? Parents still alive so you don't feel the need? Glad the kids get to know her bc they wanted to, but their mom is S tier crazy and low key selfish
 @ItsmeCR-g8j  This is why raising kids that aren't yours isn't a good idea 99% of the time.
@robot the kids are the ones who reached out not her. They are the ones who wanted to meet her.
@charlesbarkley you are making a lot of assumptions about people you don't know.  She didn't "hunt them down".   They made a decision to meet her on their own.
 @melissagreye8445  he went a bit too detailed, but we can agree some of what he says is the truth, atleast the silver lining is she got to see her kids, now how that dynamic plays on is interesting.
 @NightElveee  he went overboard.  As I said she wanted to let them know about the health information especially since it was family cancer diagnosis which could be genetic.  The kids were the ones who took it a step further by reaching out to her to meet her.
 @melissagreye8445  That's the point I am making. It opens the door for the person who raised them get cast to the side. It happens all of the time to step parents.
 @High_Rate136  Their parents are not  being cast to the side.
 @High_Rate136  They are her kids. She raised them. The people who are suspicious of the donor mom are weird.
​ @charlesbarkely3021 broski they're eggs. You're being selfish for judging so hard over EGGS.
 @purzz5989  I don’t think you know what the word selfish means
 @purzz5989  also the biological mother is the selfish one. She didn’t care about her kids until her parents died and she’s a victim
 @charlesbarkely3021  but it’s okay for men to do all those things. LOL
 @charlesbarkely3021 because it’s usually anonymous so it’s was probably hard to find them.  She also probably didn’t want to reach out too early to avoid overstepping in case the mom didn’t want them to
 @charlesbarkely3021 ​​⁠​​⁠Were Amy truly selfish, she never would've donated her eggs, and quite possibly Karen would never have had her two children. Amy donating her eggs was a selfless act. The two children are mature and smart enough to know the difference between the mother who raised them and the woman who supplied half of their DNA. They're happy, just be happy for them✌️
 @charlesbarkely3021  nice essay, but rather judgemental, of your own personal biases
“ when I thought 💭 how am I going to get to them ?!  Then aha I remember… my mom has a cancer and I have to tell them “ 😂😬
 @melissagreye8445  “ when I thought 💭 how am I going to get to them ?!  Then aha I remember… my mom has a cancer and I have to tell them “ 😂😬
 @High_Rate136  how was it a bad idea? Seems to have worked out well for everyone involved
 @KNByam  I don't think she wants them or want them they you think she does...
 @melissagreye8445  She didn't want to let them know about health information. The only way she could contact them was because of the health information so she did. Had she been able to meet them before I doubt she'd even care or remember to mention the health risks.
 @charlesbarkely3021  The people not seeing the picture clearly are dense. You are absolutely right. If people actually listened to the words the donor spoke they would see what we see. She clearly stated she felt lonely and empty.
 @KNByam  there 20, I don’t think she can “have them” 😂, the kids just got a 2nd mom
​ @charlesbarkely3021 so she regret her choices in life does that make her a crazy person i think nit
True. But at least she didn't waste her good genes. If she never donated, she would've never had them.
I fear that these kids are going to find out real quick that the biological is a very needy and selfish person.
Not sure if this applies in this situation but a lot of women who donate eggs are unable to have their own children because of the process of retrieving the eggs, I think it’s unethical to “target” college students when they are broke and vulnerable. 🙏🏻
Each to their own, what works for one doesn't work for another❤
Indeed, imagine the heartbreak of finding out you don't know your true mother or father.. 💔💔💔 Its so wrong. Those people will miss out on so much relatability from their parents from sharing looks to even traits that are passed down.. even mannerisms they share. Its truly a miracle how similar to our parents we become, regardless of whether we meet them or not. That nagging question of "who are they? Are they like me? Do they look like me? Do they miss me and love me? Do they only see me as dollar signs? Do they even care about who I ended up with, if I was raised well?"
Fr! I'd at least need confirmation that the family aren't conservative/republicans 🤢 way too much could go wrong there.
 @freestylegamingartist8192  I'm an egg donor child and all those "nagging questions" are just props for a fantasy you made up in your head. The people that raised me are my true parents and I do not care about any other ones... Your comment is so cruel not only to people like me but to adoptive kids/parents as well as step-kids/parents. A familial bond goes so much deeper than genetic makeup.
​ @inessa5923 i feel sorry for you and it's understandable that you're trying to deny reality
@ Science is reality so I think it’s the other way around
That isn’t for everyone 🤓 I got kids and I couldn’t imagine donating my eggs 😮 but in other cases work 🧐 it is a crazy world out there and kids are a blessing ❤❤❤ 🌾🪽
 @inessa5923  grow up, the comment wasn't cruel. so you had a great experience. congrats, but not everyone can say the same. you don't speak for everyone in the similar circumstances.
The woman donated her eggs for someone to have a chance to have children who couldn't.  How do you come to the conclusion of that gesture being unethical?
 @Jaycee3  there are two ways of getting things done.the right and the wrong way. both the women chose the wrong way whihc is religiously and morally incorrect. what if the children never found out their biological mom? we do not know who their biological father is? their paternal grandparents cousins etc
 @Jaycee3  She SOLD them for profit, with little to no consideration of what the resulting children would think or how they would one day feel. Making children into commodities absolutely is unethical
 @heatherwillis5505 these kids seem more well adjusted than most people’s bio kids.
exactly it isn't allowed to give info of donator or adopting parent to each other I always read same
 @Naylee903  We can discuss morals but "religious" rules are not objective rules. Hope this helps <3
 @inessa5923  such children do not know abou their families at all. their uncles ,aunts ,cousins. this in turn leads to further immoralities unknowingly and adverse emotional impact is another factor. this is totally Islamically incorrect. if someone cant have children the right way, let not him or her resort to the wrong ways .full stop
 @Naylee903  who cares about islam, I care about objective rules like inessa mentioned. stop bringing religion into this bring common sense. thatnks
I’ve seen this happen in real life, this why I’m cautious of doing something like this
That's a terrible way to look at that. The donor mom is not taking anything away from the twins' mother. Kids wanting to look for their donor mothers are curious by nature. The donors are also curious as well. The egg donation process is risky by itself. The hormones, procedures, and injections are just a few things the donor has to go through in order to even begin the process. The donor mom is a hero. Their mother is also a hero for giving these children life and raising them in healthy household.
I hope those kids never forget that Sunday is their real mother. The other lady just donated eggs to pay for her law school. Sunday is the one that was there for those kids day and night and through thick and thin. Now this donor woman shows up at of nowhere after Sunday has done all the heavy lifting.
 @meral5920  I don’t think this woman is trying to replace the mother. The relationship will likely end up being like an aunt and niece/nephew. But who knows? I’d be nervous that she didn’t have her own children and is wanting to fulfil that hole. I hope she doesn’t try too hard with the twins or this could end up a bit of a mess.
I agree! If I heard correctly, the donor said ‘I have 2 kids’! she donated the eggs, she doesn’t have 2 kids
 @meral5920  BOTH women are their ''real'' mothers. It's not a competition. Both of these ladies are mature enough to realize this.
@AnnA-jd4xm That’s YOUR opinion. Don’t try to talk to me like you’re some kind of scholar, as if you’re speaking FACTS. We are all entitled to our own OPINION
 @meral5920  what are you talking about?😂 It's literally facts, not an ''opinion''.🥴
There's nothing good about this story. The mother, real mother shouldn't be allowing egg donor ( yes, let's call that woman who she is, just an egg donor, that's all) to meet her children. They are still teenagers and egg donor is too pushy and obviously younger and will try to force her friendship on these kids. In many instances women who raised kids still call biological mothers even if they used egg donor. It's very common now in Asian culture ( particular Chinese and Korean) to use egg donotation, but it's always keep a secret, and for a good reason! Look what happened here. Woman donated her egg probably for $3000-5000 ( usual rate back then) and then started searching. Older woman, mother, looks like in her late 60s, and most likely used surrogate. I  don't understand why she wanted to meet up with that crazy egg donor.
 @user-wc7mo9uo9o   First of  all Keeping egg donation a secret is DISGRACEFUL. Children DESERVE to know where they come from and deceiving those children by pretending you are their biological parent is just selfish.  Second of all, the adoptive/birth mother is HAPPY that the kids' biological mother is in their lives. The more people to love the children, the merrier. She literally released their personal info so the biological mother could contact them.  Third of all, those kids are HAPPY that they know their biological mother. They don't have to spend their life wondering who the hell she is which is AWESOME for them.  People with your perspective shouldnt procreate because you don't have the best interest of the children at hand.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  I don't know what country or Universe you are living but every reputable egg donor's agency in US care about client's privacy. Egg donors can be compensated up to $25000 today, depending on particular race and features (most people want blond, blue eyes babies). All these egg donors are younger women and doing that strictly for money, and they always want to remain anonymous as well. There's no way any normal family, mother dream of egg donor showing up at their house 20 years later, or started harassing family, children, just because she failed at her life. That crazy egg donor, yes, she is just that, egg donor who sold her eggs for financial compensation, didn't managed to get married or have children and even admitted that she is lonely! She needed psychological help. This case is disturbing in any sense and that's why it made news because it's a single case! Millions of people all over the world paying for donors eggs and have babies, and thankfully we don't have these stories about egg donors looking for families. It was single horrible case.
One women is old and tiered and the other is young and fun this is not going to end well
 @taliabraver  keep dreaming. The birth mother take care of them whole their life, she raise them and she is their mother. The donor will learn that she is not the mother of those kids. The only thing that make me sad is those kids that have this pushy lady trying to fix her life with those kids.  And those kids instead of building their own life (they are in that age) they now are pushed to fill void of some empty donor life :D. Genetics means nothing, trust me on that I have personal experience, but people quality and connections means everything.
exactly! i hope she'll leave them alone! bc she looks like trouble .
So agree I was so annoyed by the story as an egg donor myself. I really think the boundaries were poor in this situation and I don’t know what could’ve been done better, but I just feel really bad for that birthmother not the egg donor but the woman who gave birth to those children
Exactly this will be the legalities of the future and there may be big fights and law suits down the track as it becomes more common. She donated her egg...ok so that's nice BUT that doesn't mean she comes in and takes over as a mum when the kid is 18. Should be anonymous and stay that way!
The donor mother takes very great risks, including losing her own fertility, aggressive cancers, and death. The hormones the women need to take in order for then to harvest the eggs are very dangerous to the donor.
What a sad and dark take on this lovely story. I hope you’re doing better now than when you first wrote this comment
​@user-wc7mo9uo9o the one advantage is.. The children know their Biological heritage, health issues and important information that the children might not know otherwise.
She is an egg donor, not a deadbeat parent. Egg donors don't financially support the children.  She waited until they were full-grown adults and they mutually wanted to make contact.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  She is correct, but out of respect for the situation and the mother who actually carried them, birthed them, and raised them... She could have said "my biological children, but instead she exclaimed "these are my kids!" in a very presumptous & invasive way as if she had done more than just sell her eggs. I hope she knows to respect the mom who did everything. It's not like Karen had those kids with a man in her life, birthed them and then gave them up for adoption (which truly warrants biological mother). People don't like to hear it but she is an egg donor, not their mother. She knew what she was getting herself into when she sold her eggs. You can't have your cake and eat it too, if you know what I mean.  The kids are also part somebody else's, a father or sperm donor. The fact remain is that the real parent here is the lady who carried them, birthed them, and raised them.
 @CarmaCat2024   Oh for fucks sake, yall are so triggered over WHAT? THEY ALL WANTED THIS. BIO MOM AND ADOPTIVE MOM LOVE EACH OTHER. Get over yourselves. The only karens involved are yall.
Wrong she did a lot, donating her eggs. They are here because of her. As much as some people hate to hear it, kids want to know their biological mom and dad.
they welcomed her with open arms. The mom that raised them said this is what we needed.
 @tnm22277  What was she supposed to say? "I have 2 eggs that are now fully grown"
What a lot of awful reactions. The mother who raised the twins wouldn’t have them without the donor. All of them agreed to meet so stop stirring and let them be happy.
 @tnm22277  right! She donated a part of herself. Just because you donate a kidney doesn’t give you two bodies now. Thats my other body because they have my kidney! She donated an egg…. Yet everyone is defending that sue is mom I don’t understand. If I donated an egg, I am not mom to the egg. Lol I’m just the human body who originally created the egg. I am a mother, it would feel so unfair and wrong to claim that term to a child of another mother that raised that and birthed that egg.
There is one fact in all of this. The adoptive mother would have no children without the biological mother.
 @tnm22277  biologically she does have children and DNA proves that. The love that the adoptive mother has is beautiful but without the biomother she would have no children.
The biological mother didn't do anything though. She just talked with her biological kids. According to you, talking is a crime now
 @AnnA-jd4xm then she should pay Sunday back all the money she spent raising them if she is the real mum
“ when I thought 💭 how am I going to get to them ?!  Then aha I remember… my mom has a cancer and I have to tell them “ 😂😬 says enough about her
 @bridget4858  You are entitled to your own opinion. Even if it makes no sense.
 @meral5920  Kids who have been loved and treated well dont typically forget their parents. That bond is much thicker than just genetics.  They are just curious. The mom who raised them is the mom.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  well biologically only the donor is the mom..  Culturally, socially, only the legal mother is THE mother.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  no ? did I claim you claimed otherwise?  I merely added nuance to discourse.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  I am chill, I returned your energy.   Are you saying you are not chill?
 @AnnA-jd4xm   And I returned that energy. I only asked questions as well.  Chill
​ @AnnA-jd4xm  Thank you I appreciate that  I wish the same for you, hopefully whatever pain you are feeling goes away so you wont have to gaslight people to feel (falsely) powerful.
@AnnA-jd4xm  you did, ever considered that you are the problem? Well you should based on your interaction with me and others on this thread.
So her glass is no longer half full, it's now overflowing with lots of love from the kids she has now met.
When the bio mom and the daughter are laughing, they look exactly the same omg. They’re all so beautiful.
The poor mother spent her whole live talking care of those kids for someone else to show up and say those are my kids
While this was a lighthearted story, it could totally be turned into a horror movie.
The real mother is who received egg in her belly and made babies, bring them in the World, raised them
Sunday is just being very mature about it but seems a little hurt when the bio mom said “Christmas is gonna be very different this year”. Sunday and her family probably have their own traditions already with HER kids 😢 but she’s doing this for them ❤
i hope they becareful of this new mom and stick with the old one that raised them.
Not two mothers. One mother. The mother who raised them is the real mother. The other one is the donor. It’s good they get to have a relationship with her, but she’s still the donor.
I just think this is wrong. She shouldn’t reach out. Just my opinion.
But … why ? I think it’s a little bit weird .
I dunno. personally I think if you donate you shouldn't suddenly want to be in their lives later on, as it could cause all types of rifts. but I'm glad this one worked out.
They are not her kids  She donated she sold those eggs  Those kids only got one mother the one raised them  The donor chose her materialistic life style over then be a mom  She chose career over been a mom  Oh well those are not her kids she gives them away
the bond that the two mothers shared seemed like something that brought a lot of light and support into their lives. beautiful <3
I am sorry, but this was extremely intrusive. What if the twins hadn't known that they were born because of a donor egg. This woman was lonely. She had lost her mother. She didn't have children, so she encroached on this woman life in order to meet kids she had no right to. I am happy the story turned out great, and everyone got to meet each other, but just wow.
This is nice and all but I didn't like how she says @1:57 "those are my kids" umm no, they're not "your kids" ....idk , I wouldn't appreciate that if I was the mother who carried them for 9 months, changed diapers, cared for them their entire lives - For then some woman to come along later saying "yay those are my kids!"  These kids/ young adults are absolutely gorgeous though!
Thats crazy, like giving someone an expensive watch then 20 years later asking for it back
No. I'm an adoptive mom, which is more or less the same deal. My son's biological mother will ALWAYS be one of his mothers. No legal document can undo that. She isn't a threat to me. We both have vital roles in his story. I hope he connects with her one day and is loved by even more people than he already is.
 @ew7512  you’re a great adoptive mom and I wish more were like you. There is so much insecurity in the adoption sphere, including those who donate eggs and sperm… adding more love to your kids lives should be seen as a great thing.
 @lyndawilliams4570   No!! The person who raised them is the mother
If you’re not ok with openness and honesty then donor eggs are probably not right for you. All the best.
It’s about the donor thinking she’s the mom, and she’s not
 @MsChitterchat  I have no problem with being Honest.   I have a problem with someone selling eggs for someone else to fulfill their want to be a mom & then the person who sold their eggs want to come back and have a relationship….& wanna play Mom… I’m not good with that.
@Holy Empress W you’re wrong. She’s the egg donor, and the lady who gave birth is the birth mother. The person who made a donation of 1- cell egg, is not the mother, and was compensated for her donation
 @johan01030709  Good, because you obviously wouldnt have the best interest for the CHILDREN in hand if you did. Only yourself, which is sad. These kids are happy to reunite with their biological mother. So is their mother. Why are you guys so triggered over this?
@Holy Empress W good for you! I bet you don’t have any issues with fertility?? So it’s easy for you to speak on what you don’t know personally! Good your husband doesn’t have to go this route! But it’s not cool to tell others that it’s desperation. That’s a cruel and nasty thing to say
@holyempressw8531 Actually this is not true,  there are publish paper that do follow up with egg donated children and those kids have stronger connections with their families compared to their peers that come from genetical connected parents.  My theory is that, when family get in to egg donation process than that family understand what a true gift that child is and treat those children with love and respect. I never ever heard that "Some has even stop talking to the one that raised them" and I am quite sure you are fabricating this one also I am talking about egg donation here. BTW, if you would NEVER allow your husband this what are you doing here, following this story angry commenting?
 @tnm22277 Scientifically you’re incorrect. Unfortunately the mother that cared for them just birthed them, not directly linked. Facts don’t care about feelings.
 @johan01030709 then don’t have donate, women are cool with it at a young age but later on the heavily regret it. You’ll become just like this woman.
 @markelraya10  you’re entitled to your opinion. ‘Just birthed’ them minimizes the mother who actually wanted them, carried them 9 months and raised them. The donor donated 1 cell. That’s it.
Currently over forty million ancestry tests have been taken.  Guaranteed permanent donor anonymity has been dead and buried for years now.  It’s better to find out young, than as a full grown adult.
See if u r infertile...then u are in mercy of donor woman...u need to accept god didn't gave u boon of being a mom...u need another woman to be a mom....have to buy someone kids...if ur kids wants to go back to their mom...u should have heart to let them go...lord krishna had two moms one who gave birth and one who fostered...when time came...his foster mom let him go...thats why we hindus considers yashoda maa as our god's mom...even his bio mom is also grateful to his foster mom...so if u cant be yashoda...you dont deserve any kid and god made right choice by making you infertile...that birth mom u see will always have my respect...because she let her kid have their wish...respected the bio mom...she will always their mom...
 @nabaninandi4140  You can't just judge people who are ill. You said "God made the right choice to make someone infertile" that sentence itself already suggests judgement in itself.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  you should google "who is the bio mother of a donor egg" before commenting
 @dianaturner-oke135  I don't need to Google something i already know 🥴
 @MsChitterchat its not as simple as you tried to make it seem. And as someone that is currently doing ivf and considered donor eggs I agree with OP.
​ @nabaninandi4140   Yashoda ma adopted Krishna . Devaki didn't sell him . She saved his life & sent him away so her brother won't kill him . Two completely different situations. Yashoda also didn't birth Krishna.  And that doesn't make her less of a mother but probably makes her more selfless. They both had their child's well being in mind . That's a completely different situation than egg donation & popping up after 20 years & someone putting down their mom's contribution as " just gave birth " . She didn't just give birth , she carried them & raised them to adulthood. This is not a story of a mom that gave away her child for adoption due to difficult circumstances . Apples & Oranges .
​ @tnm22277  or maybe people need to learn they can't have it all. If you can't have kids then there are plenty to adopt. Maybe that was their purpose.  In the end the kids would probably wanna know who their biological parents are and thankfully these kids wanted to know and actually got to know. It meant alot to them. If they weren't then they would always wonder and to do that to a kid is kinda sad.
For real. Thank you for the donation I paid a ton of money for, but please keep out of our lives.
​@tnm22277  That screams insecurity on Yew behalf and shows Yew are not confident about yur parenting capabilities. So that's a YEW issue to be fixed.
​@tnm22277 She's not a donor, she's a biological mother, pure and simple. You can call her whatever to obfuscate this fact, but the fact remains.
 @tnm22277  You’re the one being cruel and nasty. Saying that the donor only donated one cell and trying to minimize her to essentially nothing is disgusting. She IS the biological mom. Point, blank, PERIOD. Your sour feelings won’t change that FACT.
She is a very unhealthy odd selfish person she considers them her kids? Thats just bizarre as soon as I watched this I said oh she didnt have her own kids thats why she is inserting herself wow very weird
who was the father, why is he left totally out of this family?
 @tnm22277  biological speaking the donor mum is the real mum even if the egg was transplanted to the mum that gave birth
 @tnm22277 exactly she was saying those are my kids …yet she spent her whole life with out kids now she want kids
 @tnm22277  She is their biological mother. The choice was given to her biological children if they wanted to reach out. The logic behind not wanting ones children's to find their biological family is awful. The children have the right to make that decision. Taking that away is not what an actual caring parent should do.
 @rivkyy-xf7yv  I agree it’s inappropriate but the kids mom agreed to meet her so I guess the ball was in her court.
This is abnormal to have this level of openness. Like she said - she asked if they’d like to meet and they could’ve say no. There’s also ways to go about completely anonymously.
I don't see her as a mom, she didn't carry the babies. She is a donor, thinking that she can claim them as hers children... And the children looking for their biological mom when she never gave birth to them. I don't know how to feel about this.
 @tnm22277  the donor is the biological mother. It doesn’t matter that she didn’t raise them that’s still their mother.
 @MsChitterchat  Amy has the crazy eyes she seems a little shall we say tightly wound.  A 20 year old law student who sold eggs was probably very career focused.  Probably did not want a family earlier but now that that ship has sailed so to speak she regrets her actions.  She seemed kinda crazy when she said she recalled signing a contract and remembered her mom had ovarian cancer. Opportunistic? Not sure that's the right word but she found the in she was looking for.  Also think this quote is telling @ 4:00 "I always refer to my life as my empty little life because you know my parents are gone and I have no kids of my own and you know I'm not married and I'm thinking what is going on with my life?". So she neglected started a family, life proceeds as it does, and she realized she had not invested time and energy into people so that later in life there are loved ones around you to share life with.  So she kind of selfishly hunted down those kids so SHE could have a relationship because HER life was lacking.  Why didn't she want to meet them 10 years ago? Career too busy? Parents still alive so you don't feel the need? Glad the kids get to know her bc they wanted to, but their mom is S tier crazy and low key selfish
Exactly- it’s ego driven. All of it. Just go buy an existing baby- adoption business is busy!
This biomom ASKED If they hadn’t shared info She would have known NOTHING about them, who, where, when—NADA It was ALL their choice
@holyempressw8531  she's the donor, not the mother...I'd feel weird if I raised my two kids for 19 years, just for the donor (who isn't a parent herself) to show up introducing herself as their mother 🫠 maybe overtime as a bond is built, but not right off that bat, and especially before even meeting the kids. It's a little weird
 @johan01030709  Then don’t use donor eggs. If you do, you won’t be that child’s only mother. Thats a fact. The child will be curious who their biological family is, and it’s not your place to keep them from that
 @claudias1522  To be fair they are her biological children and why wouldn’t she have deep interest and love for them?  Does having twice as many uncle’s as say a friend of yours. Mean that you love yours half as much?  Also, the vast majority of egg donors are broke college girls who don’t think about the reality of what they’re doing. And the the consequences to their own health and fertility
 @UncleDavesKitchen  its a donor, why would a man be their? Also probably does not care to be in thier life.
Okay.. they found their other half. It’s all fun and joy and they celebrated their Christmas together like they never had before, but the real question here is;  Put those two on a lie detector and ask them whom do they love the most, an egg donor mother or the mother she raised for a whole 20 years.
100€% this enthusiasm after she’s donated the eggs for money… ?
@holyempressw8531 see the words you choose..”desperation” etc makes the real mom who raised her feel horrible. The reason why women feel less.
Ultimately it makes me wonder about the motives. She says her parents are dead she has no husband and no children would she have reached out if she had had a husband and children??? It does seem like she did this because she wanted to have children. It just seems kind of sneaky the way she went about gathering the information too. At the end of the day she doesn't seem very trustworthy to me.
Children have a right to know their heritage. When we make babies, their needs have to come first.
 @rivkyy-xf7yv  They are her kids, aren't they? They came from her eggs. It's a scientific fact.
Completely agree the story made me angry for the mother that raised these ungrateful twins. You can tell she is a peaceable woman and allowed this lonely bozo to come in and claim her kids but I wouldn’t allow it.
 @tnm22277 agree! The child would not be born without the birth mother. Yes, it might be the donor’s dna, but it’s also the birth mother’s cells that nourishes and makes the child and this should not be diminished.
⁠ @MsChitterchat  has nothing to do with openness and honesty 😂 what a silly comment. It’s the idea that your babies are raised by another person, and you don’t know if that other family is treating them well. Let’s be honest, these women that sell their eggs are usually doing it for money. So wrong in every way. Happy to see this was a happy reunion, but it is not always. Sometimes very traumatic for all involved
 @tnm22277  Argue semantics all you want, she is their mother genetically, DNA test will prove it.
 @tnm22277 she is though, the kids now have 2 moms. I’d say that’s a good thing, a lot of kids don’t have any mom
Then don' t do it.  No one said you have to.  But the children get to make their own choice once they are adults, and you have no control over that.
@captainobvious2435 she is right. I have seen a similar situation like this. But I was naive at first thinking nothing will go wrong. Wise and people with experience fears the worst
 @oponchocj6834  Exactly, a meternal bond is a very strong one. A part of her still considers them as her kids. I wouldn't recommend this at all.
So…in your perfect world that 19 year old woman dies young from ovarian cancer.
 @86Framer The donor could have just updated her medical info and the clinic then contacts the family. That's what the donor was supposed to do and that's what the donor signed a contract agreeing to. This donor was just being very selfish and very unethical.
 @LoganGraceHope  Her biological children wanted to meet her.  In the many cases where children aren’t told they’re donor conceived and fertility clinics get ghosted too, by not being told about successful pregnancies. It causes donor conceived people and their children to sometimes die from not having accurate family health histories. That’s why Washington State among many others are getting rid of donor anonymity.
 @rivkyy-xf7yv  My response is why governments have been banning permanent donor anonymity
 @stefanisilva2493  You do know that’s it’s really common for women who use donor eggs to not want to ever tell their children they are donor conceived right?  Also, are there any medical papers that say those genetic tests make family health histories pointless?
 @86Framer  These genetics tests now are precisely to discover genetic issues on health, and some are for ancestry. Quit cheap now to get both with acuracy that increases every year. Not even necessary to disclaime the "secret", just test the kids.
 @stefanisilva2493  Again, are there any medical papers that say genetic testing is so good, that family health histories are made irrelevant by taking one?  Donor conceived people having preventable deaths from not knowing family health history is why laws have been changing about donor conception.
 @86Framer  it’s like that one meme where you’ll comment “I love pancakes” then someone online replies “…so you hate waffles”, don’t put words in ppl’s mouths
 @flowersArePretty1  Since when does liking pancakes do the damage that I’m talking about?
 @86Framer what tf r u on? Having a family history of cancer doesn’t mean u automatically get it as a teenager 😂😂
A "real mother" is one who is there for her child though thick and thin and sees them into adulthood.  She doesn't need to have given birth to them to attain the status of real mother.
Yes, the donor woman is very selfish, she dosnt think to ask first she just assume.
The recipient parent is Karen and Sunday is a mutual friend who was the biological mother’s college roommate. The “hurt feelings” about Xmas is quite the conclusion to come from someone who clearly wasn’t paying much attention to the story.
 @lvt2050 She is Karen’s egg donor and the biological mother to the twins.  Donor conceived people don’t have donors, unless they use a donor to conceive themselves.
 @86Framer Let me correct you, Karen is a genetic donor to the Sunday kids. Will she be consider a "mother" is on the kids and not an internet troll who pushes their agendas online.
They will eventually call Karen "MOM".. it's normal .. They will have two moms as is the case with many families..
by the time this was taped time had gone by. It's not like this was the very first meeting. They tried to make you feel  like it was the first time for effect. They were already in touch for quite some time.
Be careful? The kids are grown adults, the biological mother can't do nothing. 20 year olds don't live with their parents anyway
I get what you are saying. They are painting this as so sweet and loving but the problems are coming, and they probably did already.
She is an egg donor. Not a mother.  The woman who raised the children with love is the real mother.
Both are their moms...who are u to tell.them that...donor is also a mom...if she choses to be one biologically... Technically they have two moms....if u do a dna test the donor will be the bio mom...
 @nabaninandi4140  I’m giving my opinion. Not my problem if you don’t like it. Give your own on your own post.
She is the bio mother of the children, the other mother adopted the eggs so she is basicly and adoptive mother.
 @lienbijs1205 right, it’s called a bio parent. That’s ok, their story unfolded beautifully
No she is bio mom.  The kids really look like her, and she's so youthful looking.
 @steelhurricane4041  You may want to call her that. But she is not he mom she is the mother. The children have got a mother, the ones who raised her. Also it's only the eggs that she's given. Not her womb. The mom actually had the children for 9 months unlike her.  Also Youthful looking has no bearing on being a mom.
 @daviddegea3373  only the eggs? Well that's her whole DNA blueprint. She's bio mom. We view it from different perspectives.
 @steelhurricane4041  Again Semantics. She gave her the eggs. The children's father too had the hand in there. Also the father is the dad because he raises children.  And she is the biological MOTHER. Not the mom.   It's not perspectives. It's basic English and relations. Mom is out of love and referred to someone who raised you and loves you. She here is not the biological one too as the real mom had the children for 9 months.
 @daviddegea3373  I was raised by my biological parents. My husband however was adopted by a family who raised him. He had issues.  A lot of people when their real parents give them up,  have some sort of  psychological problem.  It's how you respond to your individual situation.  I love the TV movie, I'll always love you. Patty Duke is the bio mom.
 @daviddegea3373  * Always remember, I love you. ( title of the movie)
 @steelhurricane4041   still doesn't make her the bio mom. Makes her the egg donor. Also you're ignoring the fact that she did not have them for 9months in her womb.   Also the kids weren't adopted here. They had a natural birth and have their actual DNA of the mom and dad.  This lady here is just an egg donor.   The kids belong to the families and not this egg donor. It is not that difficult to understand.
 @daviddegea3373  I bet the "egg donor" or "sperm donor" that you want to refer to others as, seems a bit disrespectful to me. That aside,  I'm sure this woman that donated her eggs had to have signed some legal paperwork on her donation, so that later in future she wouldn't be able to claim them as her children in a court of law.
 @daviddegea3373  I bet the "egg donor" or "sperm donor" that you want to refer to others as, seems a bit disrespectful to me. That aside,  I'm sure this woman that donated her eggs had to have signed some legal paperwork on her donation, so that later in future she wouldn't be able to claim them as her children in a court of law.
 @steelhurricane4041  it's not disrespectful. It's the truth. It's disrespectful to the actual mothers and fathers of the children who have birth to them and took care of them that you call this lady as their bio mom. The actual parents did their duty and we should give credits to this lady in a youtube video?
​ @daviddegea3373  They are all happy with bio mom and adoptive mom. .
 @steelhurricane4041  Dude they are not ADOPTED! You are getting it mixed up. The kids had a normal birth and not from a surrogate! I cant understand how you can conflate the basic fact!
She’s the bio-mom. These kids are basically adopted. They have another family that they deserve to know about. No good mother would feel threatened by the truth of this. Source: Mother, Daughter, Sister of Adoptees.
 @nabaninandi4140   They are all soooo happy!!! How can anyone say such negative things? I guess we are conditioned to only hear bad news these days.
​ @gracejones2831 Because you know it wouldn't work on normal people. Exceptions are not the norms or primary rule.
A mother is the person that loves their children. Both of these women love their children. The adopted mother would never have had children without this biological mother. IT is beautiful.
frivolize it all you want, she's still their bio mom 🤷‍♀☺
She gave her egg so someone could have a child.  Now, that those children are grown, if they want their bio mom in their lives, who can say no to that?  Would you tell children you raised they couldn't have their bio mom in their lives?  If you have been a good mother, that will never be threatened.  However, biology and a history of their bio family is important to many.  Those kids were just about to start looking for her!!!
I'm an adoptive mom. Both of us are my son's mother. No act of man or legal agreement can sever the ties of heritage, ethnicity, ancestry and traits that they will always share. While, he and I have a shared living history. Both matter and both are real.
Yea their 2 different things. Clearly she didn't do no work at all no commitment no being tied down... not really a mother. Lol
The definition of mother is a woman who has children. You can stay pressed and insist she is only a donor but that doesn't change the fact that those kids are her kids, and that makes her a mother.
Technically both women are the twins' biological mothers. The adopted mother had to carry those twins for 9 months. The blond lady was the one who had to facilitate all the gynaecological and obstetrical processes that any mother would have to go through in bearing children. Plus she raised them. The donor only donated her eggs. She is only their mother genetically to be precise.
 @gavingrant9121  No, technically one is the bio mother and one is the adoptive mother.
@MM-qo4to You're just arguing semantics. Call her whatever you want. Biologically, they share the donors bloodline.
 @MM-qo4to  yeah. This isn't going to end well. The raised mother will feel sad. It's going to be interesting.
Is that not her "biological mother"?  What else do you call her? "Biological lady"?
 @MM-qo4to   One is the biological mother, not only the donor.
 @steelhurricane4041  The best way to refer to them is, one is the egg donor and the other is the mother.  Calling her anything more significant than an egg donor is extremely disrespectful to the woman who gave birth to and raised the kids.
 @lienbijs1205  she is not an adoptive mother, she gave birth to them and holded them for 9 months. The egg donor, was an egg donor, not an embryo donor
She was feeling lonely, single and childless. Hopefully, this contact will not disrupt the relationships of the birth mother and her children if she becomes more domineering as their biological mother in the future.
It is a little weird lol! That's why everyone in the comment section is trying to reason with this, a lonely mom in her 30's no family no husband going back to her biological kids.
Really? Since when is more love and more family a bad thing?
You mean she blessed a women to be able to be a mother.  I see positive 100% but I also feel that the true identity of the donor male or female she be released to the child when the children reach adulthood. It should never been a secrets because you don’t want siblings falling in love and mating with each.
funny, but true. This turned out great for everyone. Such a feel good story.
 @faustopacheco120  Are you a man. Labor and 9 months pregancy ain't easy what so ever. I welcome alternate methods
​ @titandarknight2698  it's actually quite easy and low risk with modern medicine
 @faustopacheco120  this is so false, women still die or get seriously injured in childbirth all the time.
 @sulagreen5792   bs it's incredibly rare less than 0.1% of births
 @faustopacheco120  That's definitely not correct for the injured part, that must be the death statistics.
 @sulagreen5792  so  you just make wild claims without even knowing the stats 🤦‍♂
 @faustopacheco120  Why don't you provide a link to your statistics then?
​ @sulagreen5792  not my job to teach you. real question is why didn't you look up statistics before jumping to ignorant conclusions?
 @faustopacheco120  So you're the one who's ignorant and is jumping to conclusions with no evidence. If you had the evidence, you'd provide the link.
 @sulagreen5792   no, im not your secretary and you're not worth my time. stay ignorant.
 @titandarknight2698 No, I’m a Mother myself, When I said the hard work, I meant raising children!
 @beckymesterhazi4624  yes, raising children is no joke. I’m a 28 year old single mom of two boys and I feel like I’m constantly disciplining or on-the-go.
Finally normal comment ❤ I think people are crazy if they think sombody sold they baby is good person.
she notified the agency about her medical history. the agency notified the mother. the mother chose to give her ADULT children the option to contact her. the children (who are adults in their 20s) said they wanted to know who their biological mother was. The children wanted to make that connection. children have a right to know where they came from, their birth mother with fertility problems cannot expect the children to ignore the natural human desire to know who your BIOLOGICAL family is
She asked and they agreed. It was through the agency, so she had the approval of the mother beforehand. You may want to watch again?
 @skepticalmaiden  I watched and my opinion stands. Like I said, I am happy everything turned out great for all involved. But there is a flipside as well and it could have ended badly, especially if they twins hadn't known they were adopted and birthed through a donor.
 @ChillyMilly908  I will tell you the same thing. I watched the entire video, and my opinion stands. Like I said, I am happy everything turned out great for all involved. But there is a flipside as well and it could have ended badly, especially if the twins hadn't known they were adopted and birthed through a donor.
​ @TheHipReview basically you're saying if this were a totally different situation something different would have happened. I agree.
She went through the agency, did you even watch the video?  Pay attention for god's sake.
@NLR759  That person makes no sense and definitely didn't pay attention! Ugh. The kids wouldn't have known if the mother who raised them didn't want them to know. The bio mom couldn't "encroach" without their mother's consent. Why is that so hard to grasp?!
Even just legally; they may have come from you but you signed a contract that literally says you forfeited that right
And she was sneaky too, use ovarian cancer as an excuse to
And watch don't need to be born and raised and don't need money for food and other essentials, as kids do.
 @mattdoliver1984  There is no asking for anything “back”. None of this even suggests that. They are not children. They are adults & make their own decisions and choices… On their own accord. They had the same desire to find out where they came from .& have every right to explore that and meet their bio mom.
 @artwatch-y9j  Right? That felt so off and gross. Also when she said "Those are my kids!" Your DNA yes, but youre not their mother.
A win win for everyone .. What a beautiful family ...  Unconditional love ..
Sorry, donating an egg doesn't make you a 'parent'.  Raising the child makes you a parent....
The mother who raised these 2 beautiful children is so amazing and generous to open the door of this "new" biological mom in their lives 😊 she is couragous and loving
I'd love to meet any siblings that I may have. 28+ years ago, when my mum was undergoing tests to investigate a stomach tumour before her hysterectomy she was constantly being called for appointments. She was later told that 22 eggs were taken out of her body over a period of time. Surprisingly my mum wasn't bothered. She just simply said "why waste an egg that can become a human being?".
Women donate their eggs for money. Not out of the goodness oh their hearts lol it’s a 10k paycheck
WOW.. Karen is just an outstanding human being! So kind and wonderful! Those kids really hit the lottery!! 🙌🙌
The Donor mum has no kids of her own and now she found out she has kids from the eggs she donated and they actually look like her, she will feel a natural urge to get involved and you can see her reaction in the video, she is delighted, she is even talking about Christmas with them.. Sad news for the mum who gave birth. The kids look nothing like her and she knows it.
She is crazy to bother a woman who struggles with infertility and to walk back in . This would prevent me from going thru with ivf which is where we are now in our infertility.
“ they are my kids”  ….she didn’t do the hardworking of motherhood.
those kids are really good looking :O That blond mother has a heart of gold.
Amy has the crazy eyes she seems a little shall we say tightly wound.  A 20 year old law student who sold eggs was probably very career focused.  Probably did not want a family earlier but now that that ship has sailed so to speak she regrets her actions.  She seemed kinda crazy when she said she recalled signing a contract and remembered her mom had ovarian cancer. Opportunistic? Not sure that's the right word but she found the in she was looking for.  Also think this quote is telling @ 4:00 "I always refer to my life as my empty little life because you know my parents are gone and I have no kids of my own and you know I'm not married and I'm thinking what is going on with my life?". So she neglected started a family, life proceeds as it does, and she realized she had not invested time and energy into people so that later in life there are loved ones around you to share life with.  So she kind of selfishly hunted down those kids so SHE could have a relationship because HER life was lacking.  Why didn't she want to meet them 10 years ago? Career too busy? Parents still alive so you don't feel the need? Glad the kids get to know her bc they wanted to, but their mom is S tier crazy and low key selfish
What an awful story! That's why vast majority of people who want to use donor's egg are doing it not just in different city but out of State or even out of the country. In case not to ever be in situation where crazy egg donor decided to search for her egg donations! Unbelievable. This crazy egg donor woman is pushy, and obviously failed in every aspect of her life, and as she confirmed, she is lonely. Why interfere in some established family's dynamic? She has 0 relationship to them! 0. All she did, she sold her eggs for $3000-5000 20 years ago! Mother, older lady, probably used surrogate as well, based on her age, and she shouldn't be allowing crazy egg donor into their lives.
This is ridiculous... those are not her kids! It may be her DNA, but nothing about them are "hers"! She finds a loophole to intrude into the private lives of these people! If she wanted to be a mother, she should have gotten pregnant with her own eggs and spent the time and money raising them.  It's one thing if the kids went looking for her... but to come up with this pathetic excuse,  so many years after the fact, is criminal. If this was my situation, I would not be pleased and would sue everyone involved.  The parents have a right to raise their kids how they see fit. Maybe they haven't had this conversation with them yet, and this intrusion could have gone so much worse.
There is one mother and an egg donor.  Great if she can be in their life, like a cousin or aunt but she is not a mother.
What an amazing & uplifting story. I love hearing about long lost family/friends finding each other... These people are so lucky!  I was adopted by an American soldier & his wife while they were stationed in Japan. My bio-mother was a Japanese nurse & bio-dad was another US Army member. I have located both of my bio-parents. Mother is still in Japan & very receptive to reconnecting. My bio-father doesn't wish to meet me or my daughter. I have reached out to an aunt (his sister) and her daughter/granddaughters. The younger ladies were happy & excited. Sadly though, my aunt won't communicate with me (even in private) because she doesn't want to "upset her brother" (my dad). I have two half brothers on that side who know of me but like our aunt, they won't reach out because of our father. Mind you, I want nothing from him other than family info & history. I'm not after his pension or any other monetary  & material gains. For whatever reason, he is still hiding from his past. So I have one parent overseas who wants to meet me (& her only granddaughter) but due to distance, travel costs & restrictions just can't make it over here (& vice versa).  My father's family are all living in the same area, which is just a 2+ day road trip away. One cousin extended an invite to visit her but that was only mentioned once when we first reconnected, over 4 years ago. She hasn't brought it up again and now I don't hear from her or her daughters anymore so... 🤷🤷‍♂
4:26 That wink! You can tell how much love there is between these two friends!! <3
Young lady, the other half of you is your mom. Not the lady who donated her eggs for a bit of money
My kids? Bruh, you gave up your egg for a career
But it's cool meet the kid that has your DNA. Her mom it's going to be her mom, who she grow up, anyway.
This story says otherwise. The longing to meet your biological parent or kids is real. To say otherwise is ignorant
 @Nolanoyayo  there was no longing in children, they were curious, woman that donated the egg had longing because she didn't have her own children. As she eloquently put it "her sad lonely life". Genetics is just that genetics and not some contract you have to fulfill, there are genetically related parents that abuse and torture their own children. The fact that they are genetically correlated means nothing....its the people that count.
If she was asked to pay back what she was paid, would she still want to meet her? Because we do all know that these women donate to make quick money and really have no interest in paying to raise them.
 @sanjapavlovic3968  In the U.K. egg donors only receive travel and any accommodation expenses (maximum £750). So it is an altruistic gesture. I’m more comfortable with this than paying young college students to go through the arduous process of egg donation. It should only be done to help a woman who cannot use her own eggs, I think.
@holyempressw8531 egg donation is for every woman who wants to have kids but can't with her own eggs, for whatever reasons. Why should this practice be illegal? Process is hurting eggs? ... lol
 @lvt2050  ''there was no longing in children'' They literally were. And they were excited to reunite.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  The kids were curious, but they didnt ask for it. Woman was scheming how to get in contact with the children and claim them as her own. Lol...no. But I do hope all is well for them.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  you literally have women saying that she was  scheming how to get in contact with the children, if the children were interested they would contact her already, they were curious they all are...your explanation is nothing compared to her own words.
​ @AnnA-jd4xm The egg becomes a child and then an adult, with the Donor's genetic heritage.
 @lvt2050   It's almost as if you didn't comprehend the video at all.🙄 She was an ANONOYMOUS donor. They had no way of contacting her until she ASKED the mother if it would be ok to meet.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  lol no, if the kids wanted to meet her they only needed to contacted the agency that did egg donation (and there is a part when they say that they discuss about that with their mother). Like what donor did. Donor used her mother illness (and she said that in the interview) to force contact with the kids. Donor was the one asking if the children wants to meet her, not the other way around (which I think it is the right way to do it) because she wasn't fulfilled as mother (she said that as well). Plus she was stalking  them on facebook telling ppl that they were her children without even meeting them.
 @lvt2050  What the actual hell are you even talking about right now? She was an ANONYMOUS donor. The recipients were ANONYMOUS recipients. They had 0 contact with each other. They did not know each other. They would have to give permission to the clinic in order to release that information. It's the same process as with private adoptions. BOTH parties are allowed to do this. Nobody ''forced''contact with one another. lmao Once BOTH parties agreed and names were released, THAT'S when they both looked each other up on facebook. She wasn't ''stalking'' them. And she told her literal roommate that they were her biological children, which they were. I'm not sure why you're so pressed about this but it's weird.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  Wtf?!?! Where did I said they were not ANONYMOUS ? Because they were anonymous donor needed to use illness of her mother to force clinic to contact family. She said that herself that she was sitting and thinking how to do this!  My problem was that donor didnt left for children to come to her, but she is the one asking if they want to meet her. If the family was already looking for contact with the donor that info would be at the clinic already, and there would be no need for donor to ask if children want to meet the donor. The donor is selfish and thinking only about herself.  And she wasnt "those are my biological children", no no, she was "those are my children", BIG difference. And she didnt tell to  "literal roommate" she told that to common friend that she share with family, BEFORE talking to children and the family.  It seems like you intentionally picking the info you like from this interview and twisting the info you dont like.
 @typower9  and how did egg become adult? by magick? is every egg an adult? what happened with all the eggs washed down the toilets during menstrual cycles, are all of them dead adults? what happens if child get  bone marrow transplant, then DNA will be from bone marrow donor, which heritage is then?
 @CS-mf5un  maybe you should check what parent means. Tell me you have no kids without telling me that.
 @lvt2050  and you clearly have never actually looked at the definition.
 @dilly7943  She's an incubator.  Nothing more.  She didn't feed the child.  Take care of the child when it was sick.  Teach the child right from wrong.  Help the child go through school.  Not 'a mother'...
 @bikebudha01  so if a mother dies in childbirth, she's somehow not the kids mother because she didn't do any of those things?
 @CS-mf5un  if the mother die on childbirth she is still a mother, she was pregnant with them and she had all intention to take care of them. But if in other case some other women take a role of the mother/parent then that person is also mother/parent. However donor here is genetic mother, she wasnt pregnant, she didnt birth the children, she didnt grow and take care of the children, not one of the parent role.
That’s when I thought when the egg donor said: Those are my kids!
 @lvt2050  that is really dumb. What if her intention had changed at some point but we would never know because she passed.
​ @lvt2050 Because you wanting kids shouldn't supercede the right of a child for a genetic parent.
She is the DNA parent! Look up the definition of parent! You’re confusing the term parent for mother!
There is something call biological instinct. You don't seem to express it, but trust us, this is totally normal for the rest of us who still have our instincts in place. Genetic connections have deeper implications, just take my word.
 @Ducktility  there is no such this as 'genetic connections'...   If you don't tell a kid they are adopted (and they look enough like the parents), they'll never ever know...   Or, and adopted kid can walk right past their biological parents, and if you don't tell them, they'll never ever know.
​ @bikebudha01  I'm not talking about any magical energy arising from genetics which makes genetically related people feel connected. I'm talking about something on the lines of the primal urge to have one's seed passed onto generations, and the affinity to protect their offspring solely of the basis that of the genetic relation, even when the parental/family bond is absent.
 @Ducktility  it's a tough thing to explain to people nowadays, so many people are very disconnected from childhood.
Genetics has left the chat. They don’t mean parenting. They are referring to a genetic parent. That genetic fact is undeniable.
 @Catinthecloud  there is no such thing as a 'genetic parent'.   'Parent" is 100% 'who raised the child'.  genetics does not raise a child.
⁠ I totally agree that it’s who raises the child that is the parent but I mean that genetically you are made up of the genetic information from two individuals/ parents.
nope, biologically they're still her kids, love is a great bond, but biological bonds are very strong regardless of how you feel about it, it's a bond that goes deep
True however the biological connection, ancestral & spiritual connection is undeniable!
Amy has the crazy eyes she seems a little shall we say tightly wound.  A 20 year old law student who sold eggs was probably very career focused.  Probably did not want a family earlier but now that that ship has sailed so to speak she regrets her actions.  She seemed kinda crazy when she said she recalled signing a contract and remembered her mom had ovarian cancer. Opportunistic? Not sure that's the right word but she found the in she was looking for.  Also think this quote is telling @ 4:00 "I always refer to my life as my empty little life because you know my parents are gone and I have no kids of my own and you know I'm not married and I'm thinking what is going on with my life?". So she neglected started a family, life proceeds as it does, and she realized she had not invested time and energy into people so that later in life there are loved ones around you to share life with.  So she kind of selfishly hunted down those kids so SHE could have a relationship because HER life was lacking.  Why didn't she want to meet them 10 years ago? Career too busy? Parents still alive so you don't feel the need? Glad the kids get to know her bc they wanted to, but their mom is S tier crazy and low key selfish
 @charlesbarkely3021  The children wanted to meet their biological mother much earlier than this. Her biological children weren’t adults back then and neither party could  request anything until they were all adults. The reason Washington state (among other governments) got rid of their donor anonymity through clinic donations. Is because donor conceived people and their children have died or had serious issues from not being told their were donor conceived.  Donating eggs can cause infertility too, so her donating eggs as a desperate broke college girl could’ve made her infertile.  How much damage does donating eggs or sperm out of desperation for money cause to these donors?  Oftentimes never meeting their biological children and missing out on huge parts of their lives.
you would not have a child to raise without an egg.  A bio parent is what it is.  The child has 1/2 of her DNA.  That is a bond, whether some like it or not.
 @anapinheiro4583  Yes, the biological mother is a donor-- a donor of her DNA that made other living humans. She didn't donate kidney's, she literally donated her genetics, which automatically makes her their mother. Children have a right to know where they came from, which includes their genetics/ heritage, etc.
She literally says she doesn’t have kids of her own 🥴 She’s not trying to “claim” them… just supporting their health and wishes to meet her.
They get between 6 to 10k per cycle, plus all medical and travel expenses. Do your research.
​ @sanjapavlovic3968 "Banning" people from speaking should never be an option, just because your don't agree
 @gracejones2831  hopefully not but I see how this can happen when people don't know who their siblings are in this world 🌍
don’t think they let people with such aggressive cancer donate, like she said she had to report cancer in her family…
​ @samaraisnt she didnt mention cancer. It might have been a benign tumor.
Those who donate to sperm or eggs should be compensated. Egg donation is not a simple procedure. Both are making money because there is a market for it. Both are making contributions that can benefit another family.
Doting eggs is still a personal act, they should be uploded, not insulted. I don't get this comment. Do you work for free? Do you help your bosses for free. At the end of the day, the egg is hers, thus she has every right to make money. Don't get this, you want benifites? Then you must be a bad person BS.
​ @ItsmeCR-g8j no one is saying they should not. The point is that's not selfless act when they are doing it bcz almost all of them regardless of gender, do it for money.
“ when I thought 💭 how am I going to get to them ?!  Then aha I remember… my mom has a cancer and I have to tell them “ 😂😬
You get your ovaries scraped for 40 days then big man ;)
why is it called a ¨donation¨ when you get 10k for it? Wouldn´t it be better to say you sold your kid?
but the woman allowed her back in. She could have said no, but said yes.
The kids said they were about to search for her as well.   Interestingly both sides were feeling it was time.
the children (who are adults in their 20s) said they wanted to know who their biological mother was. The children wanted to make that connection. children have a right to know where they came from, their birth mother with fertility problems cannot expect the children to ignore the natural human desire to know who your BIOLOGICAL family is
 @Nick210  Because the egg donors' intentions are not pure. She's going to cause problems.
 @DevsBiscuit  because its very obvious from the way she acts? she should have humbled herself down to not overshadow the real mom...
 @tcos918   I don’t feel sorry for her, what a beautiful person, she gave life to those beautiful children. She gave the mother beautiful children
The mother who raised them also birthed them and has them for 9 month. Donor egg is not like adoption. Egg is put into the body of the woman who want to have kids so they can be pregnant, making the baby have 3 gen pools.
Yeah I'm glad they're all OK with meeting, but the blond woman's kids seem a lot more well-adjusted than their donor and I hope they realize pretty quick that sticking with the woman who raised them is the right call. Cool to meet donor like a fun aunt, but yeah nah, they don't owe her anything.
 @user-wc7mo9uo9o  I thought it was really presumptuous when the phrase "my kids" was used in a non-disclaimery way, like 'biological children' . Ok fine the mother who raised them was gracious enough to welcome her, and you don't meet that with this entitled attitude after you did basically what any baby daddy could do minus a hospital visit and a couple shots (egg harvesting). She should recognize how privileged she is that the mother is such a warm and generous person. If I were the kids I wouldn't be all "oh we laugh the same way! Thats so meaningful!" I would be super grateful for the mother who raised me after meeting egg donor woman.
 @IronFistVelvetGloveX  I agree  with  you 100%. Something  is missing  in this story as well.  This shouldn't  be like  "good news" but a base for  a lawsuit  against  the clinic for releasing information to the egg donor! Millions  of people  everywhere use egg donations; its a paid transaction  and confidential. Contracts  are signed, just exactly for that reason we saw in that awful video  - so no crazy nut egg donor would show up  on a door step years later! NDA is a legal binding. I am in disbelief  that mother allowed egg donor ( clearly  crazy woman plus a loser in life) enter their  home.
That bio woman has been wonderful, her egg donation has been amazing and she  deserves respect
 @user-wc7mo9uo9o completely agree the woman’s life was empty so she wants to drink from another woman’s cup
you're right ! She broke the contract and also stalked them!! Very creepy Omg... and she is very manipulative!  The worst part is she is a lawyer so probably she calculates her every move to not get sued... to me, this is not a heartwarming story, its a horror movie trailer
 @AnnA-jd4xm  Nah, there is a donor and biological mother. The donor have genetical connection like an aunt. You should talk to egg donor created kids if they consider donors as a mothers, when they meet them :D.
​ @AnnA-jd4xm there's a Birth mother who raised them,and Biological mother who sold them
 @lvt2050  so if they are raised in artificial womb...would they become that machines baby? Are u serious....
 @nabaninandi4140  so for you it dosnt matter who birth you and take care of you when you were a child?!?! So theoretically your egg donor can give you to someone, then after the birth toss you out to the street (or sell you to someone) and after 20 years when you start earning money return demanding you call her mother and you will be ok with that?!?  are YOU serious?! If machine birth the baby than whoever take care of that baby is its mother, that should be self explanatory
​ @lvt2050 A biological mother is a biological mother is a biological mother, whether one wants to accept it or not. Whether the child of the biological mother has feelings for her as a mother is another issue entirely.
 @typower9  yes the woman who give birth is biological mother by definition. Some kids consider both egg donor and birth mother as biological mothers some just birth mother while egg donor consider genetic donors but by definition women who birth child is a biological mother.
I've helped with raising my little brother and now my niece.  If you didn't stay up night in night out for 2 years straight tending to that infant's every need, you're not "mom" or "dad" to that kid. Period
 @rachel_griffiths  lol...only if you think that birthing is not a biological process? By law the woman who birth the child (if she is not the surrogate) is considered biological mother.
 @lvt2050  you have a shaky idea of the law. 'Biological parent' is not a legal status in donor conception. The woman who gives birth is the LEGAL mother (including surrogates until they relinquish parental responsibility). The egg donor is a biological/genetic parent but not the legal parent. Birthing is a biological process but that person is not the biological mother. It's something women who carry other women's genetic children delude themselves into thinking to ignore the fact they are not genetically related to their own child.
 @rachel_griffiths  really because in the definition that I know "A biological mother is a woman who gave birth to a child or provided the egg that developed into an embryo." Making distinction that only one is biological mother, you are trying to say that genetic is biological and gestation is not. This is not true. From what I see no woman that used egg donation are deluding themselves about genetic relations with their children but they all consider themselves mothers to a child, if they take care of the child. Similar statement can be made that "egg donors delude themselves that they are the mothers to a child", which they are not, because they simply didn't take care the child, or mother the child.
The birth mother can also be regarded as the biological mother in many respects as it grew, was nourished and developed from birth mother’s cells, whilst the donor provided the dna.
How wonderful to have met your birth mother. So happy for you and your daughter.
Nothing uplifting about story. Total violation of privacy laws. Mother, older lady, shouldn't be allowing crazy pushy egg donor ( that's exactly who she is- egg donor- and nothing else) into their family life.
 @Uber1937  What does it mean? First, write in ENGLISH. You are not in Mexico! Second, explain your thoughts more clear
Sorry Nancy Berry but it sounds like ur dad may have been married when he And ur mother probably accidentally conceived you.  Lots of men of war have fun while on tour overseas in many places.  Maybe at the time he didn’t have children yet but may have been married.  If u fall in between the kids than obviously he was married with kids.  U never know why he can’t see you maybe it’s not so much u as u think May look like u want something from him but what it will cost him in his personal life to see you.  The wife probdbly knows about you and doesn’t want to be shamed as a women who was cheated on by him.  It’s not ur fault. But instead of it being something u wondering why not for you it could be that he doesn’t want to face a costly divorce if you show up. He doesn’t want to lose his whole family now in his older years if ur existence overlapped with his personal family life.  If would be nice if u got to me him but if he doesn’t want to than screw it.  He doesn’t sound like someone who is worthy anyway.  There is so many possibilities why he might not be able to. Maybe he will lose something if he did: his own inheritance, his whole family, his wife and kids, his siblings are very loyal.  There must be a valid reason to him of why he can’t.  In the flip he may not be a nice person after all.  If he had the choice u probably would have been aborted justt so you wouldn’t show up later too but the choice was not his.  It was ur biological mother’s.  She had You and you became a blessing for another family. So just leave well enough alone.  Why hurt yourself for someone who is not worthy.  Go see your mom and that’s that.  Just because they are men of war doesn’t make them good men.  My nephew is my sisters son.  She went on vacation for a summer.  Was a virgin came back pregnant omg. My parents hit the roof. Lol. He was stationed where she was. Guess what we later found out he was married with kids. Came from a well off family. My sister didn’t want anything from him. My nephew reached out in his early 20s.  He was accepted by his grandparents, one since passed.  His half sister wanted nothing to do with him.  His half brother would speak on and off idk if they still do.  His bio dad spoke with him only when my nephew reached out to him.  My nephew was doing a project and his bio dad said he can help so he sent his bio dad money for air fair cuz the guy sounds like a loser actually. He pocketed the money and didn’t come out to help him. That’s when my nephew cut him out of his life.  My nephew said well it only cost me $500.00 to see what he’s made us and that’s it.  It was easy Money well spent.  So just because people are related doesn’t make them relatable or worthy. Let it go.  Best of luck sweetie.
I feel like the donor should’ve asked the mom for permission first.
Nothing about the dad? Is there a reason he wasnt even mentioned?
well guys.. plot twist: she was old and couldnt have children of her own and was depressed with mid life crisis and then she remembers... oh wait I should have ready made children somewhere and looks em up.
You're just a donor. She's the one that carried those eggs until they had become a infrant and took care of them.
How interesting now that she has no parents, no children and no one in her life so she crawls back into her children's lives, so timely of a coincidence in time .. Their actual mother who raised them from birth looks like such a kind and innocent soul. The donor mom gives narcistic vibes.
as a child who was adopted at birth, this woman is what we were all waiting for.
Nope. Sorry, you should not be donating your eggs if you think you will have a longing to meet your biological children. She says “those are my kids” actually they are not, they are someone else’s kids, she made the decision to DONATE not LEND. What is that poor recipient mother going to say now? She loves her children and will give them anything they want. Donors should not do this.
Her children are absolutely stunning. Being an egg donor or even a surrogate mother for those trying to have children is the most selfless act any person could ever do in this world. Incredible woman. I'm so glad she found this family and even more that the children grew up in such a loving home.
As soon as I saw the kids, I saw the resemblance! Amazing.
I feel bad for the mother that raised them. The biological donor went out, broke her deal not to interfere and stalked them on social media to find them. The mother that raise them, knowing that they have a desire to meet her did put her feelings aside in letting them have a relationship, but this is holy unfair to her. The biological mother is already calling them Her kids even going as far saying she doesn’t have other kids and she finally has family now even talking about Christmas being different. The children are calling her their other half. It’s only a matter of time before the mother that raise them falls into serious depression. You don’t donate your eggs to come back 20 years later and claim the kids if you fail to have children of your own family. The mother that raised them is too nice and too terrified to upset her kids and she’s going along with the charade. She is the egg donor from hell.
wonder why the bio mom didnt have kids of her own? Being a mom and a dad is so much more than just a donor
""Those are my kids"....nope women who birth them are their mother, you just gave starting cell.  Girl looks more like her birth mother in her face...hair is black but her face is longer like her birth mother,  the probable influence of epigenetics. I understand both sides but I don't like donors looking for these kids (the other way around ok, kids would be interested) ...its strange she is just the genetic donor and now she acts like she is a real mother to them. I think this woman look nasty.
The egg seller should had nothing to do with that lady's twins.  It's an overreach in my opinion.  I think the egg seller was lonely in her life so she went that route to fill holes of never marrying nor having her own children.
They called them both mother's, they aren't really both mothers. I think we should normalize the word "donor".
Its really nice because you can tell the mother is the most understanding person. You have to be extremely selfless to allow this to happen
This is wrong, if you donated, let that be, donated, who takes back the gift she or he has gi en away, this is cruel of these women
@samalex9559 Would you also say this to meet the sperm donor? xD Good thing the actual mom gave good values to the children here. "Choose their relationship with their egg donor" haha You talk as if these children are adopted and the egg donor is somehow the biological mother here instead of the actual mother who had her for 9 months and raised them to this age.
@samalex9559 It is really stupid that you feel that the actual mom is the adoptive mom. The actual mom gave birth to the children and raised them. They are HER Children and not this Lady who donated her blood. There are no MRNA exchanges between the egg donor and the child and a DNA Test would actually show the mother as the mother and the egg donor as maybe a distant realtivev, sharing the genes ofcourse but not a mother.  It is sad to see that you want to elevate an egg donor to a mother status. Will you do the same to sperm donors? Will the sperm donor be the biological dad?  The children already have a mother, the one who gave birth to her and raised her. ANyone else is just another person.
@samalex9559 An egg donor is not a mother… morally, she has even less rights than a birth mother who gave birth but had to give up three baby for adoption. She overstepped her role.
 @pmwyy  There is no calming down people who think their feelings are facts and that the little knowledge they have is enough to argue and everyone will listen to it xD  Like how would a DNA show this donor as the mother when the actual mother gave birth to the children xD Sad state of affairs.
She is 100% the biological mom. It's the same as when a mom gives her kids for adoption , sometimes they connect when the kids are adults.  She sold her eggs.
 @sweetpie7919  No it is not the same as adoption xD  reason being precisely as you said, she just sold her eggs.  She is a donor.  The actual mother gave birth to the children. That is the biological definition and literal definition of a mother. So definitely not the case of adoption.
The donor with the clinic asked the recipient if they were open to meet and they agreed to share each others information then. If either the recipient or her children did not want to, they have the right and they would have declined to share information. Regardless of who raised or who gave DNA. We all know carrying a child for 9 months does not equate to parenthood these days nor does donating an egg or a sperm. Although, I cannot fathom why "my kids" could be seen as nothing more than a possesive phrase. My neighbor, sweet lady, calls me her kid and that means she cares for me, asks me if I had lunch or how my day was. For some of us who don't have parents, a parent more is a blessing. And for single parents out there, to know that your children has someone else to turn to is a positive. We could never know the full story, but let's not view this as a sad thing for either side. Spread love people.
​@daviddegea3373  oh my goodness... ok the egg ova contains the donor moms family genes so yes the donor moms genes. The recipient does not pass down her or her family's genes at all but situations during pregnancy can cause some to be expressed and not.  My goodness basic human biology.  By definition the she is the biological mother.  But that's not meant to take away from the woman that went through pregnancy and birthed them and raised them. She did great. She wanted children while the other sold hers in a way. In the end someone uses your eggs, you got a kid that's biologically yours and I don't get how some people are fine with that. Just crazy to me.
@cortezconquistador THEY ARE NOT THE  ADOPTIVE PARENTS haha. Wtf are you on about. THEY are literal parents.  This lady is just the donator of eggs.  It's so ludicrus that you call the actual mother who gave birth to the children and raised them as adoptive, But suddenly someone who sold her eggs as ACTUAL parents xD The levels of delusion. Next you are going to tell me that sperm donors are actual dads.
@sierrahjmartinez6703 Oh my goodness too. The delusions here from half learnt knowledge/ The recipient transfers the actual MRNA to the child. The basic feature of the DNA. Any DNA test will show the mother giving birth as the actual mother. Basic biology indeed. It is not the sperm that is transferred, it's the eggs. The parents of the child both biologically and factually are the mom and dad that gave birth to the children and raised them and not this lady who sold her eggs, I know a lot of you are so desperate to link this sad single lady to be the mom of the children but it does not work that way.  DNA test will no doubt also show that this lady is related, but not as a mother but rather as a distant relative, the same way as many Americans who have never been to Europe Asia or Africa have a cluster of DNA which shows them to be related there. All this to say The lady who gave birth is the real Biological MOM. For all intents and purposes, definitely not the lady in the video.
Only if there are children. But once they are adults, that's another story
Why are people making this silly argument, if the kids are invested & want a relationship with THEIR biological mom, what is it to you? All of them appear to be over the moon, meanwhile you’te upset & making this a competition!!! Smh
 @daviddegea3373  And yet the result is exactly the same. Her "donated" eggs resulted in another woman raising her children .  With adoption the result would be another woman raising  her children.  It's not really donating when they're actually selling their eggs.  But whatever. The fact that she didn't give birth to them doesn't make them any less her children.  And giving birth to someone else's biological child doesn't magically make you related.  They aren't going to look like her or anyone in her family.  So she's the mom the same way she would be if had had adopted.  And I'm sure she loves them. I just find it weird that people are purchasing the DNA of strangers to make children and it's seen as normal.    It's a bit of a kick in the face to the kids who need families.  People are borrowing money from family members or taking it out of the retirement funds to pay for fertility treatments and buy eggs or whatever. I've heard some people say they spent $150,000 over the years and for some it didn't even work.  They could have adopted a child or 2 or 3 and been a parent. It's obvious it doesn't need to be " their own" if they are willing to buy eggs.
 @daviddegea3373  , You seem very confident in your “facts,” but that doesn’t make them correct. I agree with you that the woman who gave birth to and raised the children is their “real” mother in every sense of word, BUT biologically. Half of the kids’ chromosomes come from the donor egg, which came from the donor woman. A DNA test would absolutely show the woman who donated the egg as the biological mother. They will not show any biological relationship to the mother who gave birth to them. Her womb was the vessel, but the embryos arose from the donor egg. There is no DNA relation between the children and the mother who raised them. That doesn’t diminish their mom’s significance in their lives, but that is the science.
​ @adro13  i AM NOT CONFIDENT ON MY FACTS BECUASE FACTS WORK IRRESPECTIVE OG MY CONFIDENCE LEVEL OR YOUR LEVEL OF IGNORANCE. Your entire sentence that "I agree with you that the woman who gave birth to and raised the children is their “real” mother in every sense of word, BUT biologically.." is so unfoundedly dumbe because the entire biology here is wrt the mother who gave birth. The mother is mainly and inherently the person who gave birth, but you want to ignore that and want to argue as if this lady is the CHOSEN one.  The DNA will show relation with the mother who gave birth xD I don't know what you are on about. The lady giving birth transfers her MRNA too. Just because at the time of infusion there is no DNA, does not mean there is no DNA transfer during the time of gestation of 9months. It will show the woman giving birth as the mother and the donor as a distant relative. Related but not sharing the same proximity of DNA as the Mother giving birth. You are conflating the Chromosomes with DNA and MRNA.  This is Science. I cannot explain it any clearer. This lady is just an egg donor. Not the mother in any way shape or form. It may be so in your fanfiction and fantasies, but she is not even close to being that.
The kids are over 18 and legally adults. Birth mom does not get a say if kids want to get to know bio egg donor mom.
The children are adults so she doesn't have to ask permission. They didn't have a choice as to who raised them, but they have a choice as to who they want in their life. They seem very happy to know their biomom.
 @pmwyy  no, because the children are adults and apparently very happy to meet their biomom. We do not own our adult children. It has nothing to do with either mother. This is their identity and their identity is from the biomother.
 @beckybarnes8875  Dude She is an egg donor. By all accounts of language mother is someone who has given birth.  Stop the pandering to egg and sperm donors to status of mothers and fathers.
I mean it's tricky given that the kids are of age and can decide for themselves, but that lady definitely gave me weird vibes 😭 she was overstepping right off the bat with telling Sunday those are her kids & that she's a parent/mom...she could've built up to that title at least after some bonding & checking in with their mom and how she feels about it
@  yep it is.. but what can i do?? im full of negetivity ig
@nicholas121 Well, that’s not what I expected to hear from someone adopted at birth, but thanks for sharing I guess. And with so many likes, seems other adoptees agree. You’ve just convinced me not to adopt. I’m barren and have held onto the hope of adopting children soon, but I can’t bare the heartbreak of giving so much of my life, time, energy, money, love, and myself to children who will always wish their “real mom” would rescue them from the family they are adopted into. After the never ending grief and anguish that is the reality of being barren, I can’t imagine how much more it would hurt to be cast aside for a fantasy of someone who doesn’t care.
Egg donors are paid thousands for “donating”. They sell their eggs- it’s a transaction, not a charity out of the goodness of their hearts.
A happy situation where everyone involved is happy except the weirdo Twitter finger losers who just want to be angry about something on their screen...
​ @dontreadmyprofilepicture8817  There's lots of those ppl in here!  "They are not your kids!" Like what? 😅 Keep it pushing, they all seem happy
How is it unfair to want to meet your real mom? I hope they go back to her lmao
Nope, she is their biological mother and they love her.Why are some of yall so pressed when the two mothers are happy that they've all come into contact? its so weird.    And that women looks gorgeous, not nasty.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  No, woman who give birth and take care of them is their biological mother, this woman is just genetical donor. From what I see, kids usually look at this ppl as aunts, genetical connected but their mother is mother who gave birth and take care of them. This woman didnt have her own kids and then remember she gave her dnk to some other women and now she is mother? lol no. Kids are happy and thats good and I do hope everything will work fine but I am also quite sure it wont be as this women thought it would be.
 @lvt2050   No, the woman who gave birth to them is their adoptive mother. She adoptive the eggs.The woman who donated her eggs is their biological mother. I'm not exactly sure why you are triggered by this, but they are ALL happy with the situation.
​ @AnnA-jd4xm  Be quiet.  Birth mother is actually the biological  mother. Check google. The egg donor is just genetically  linked and not their  mother.  She didn't  make a human  just  sold donated  her egg.
​ @NANCYNA-h5e    Biological mother is the one who donated the eggs. Birth mother is the one who GAVE BIRTH, which is the kids' mother. Perhaps you should take your own advice and pipe down.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  Sorry but  no, donor is just a donor, not a parent and not a mother.  You dont call organ donors your mothers, clones or something other than donors. The same apply here. And by the book if the woman birth the child  its their biological mother and if she take care of them it their REAL mother.
 @lvt2050 Contributing half of someone’s DNA isn’t comparable to being a blood donor.  Do you think that 19 year old shouldn’t have been told about her risk of getting ovarian cancer?
Exactly. She felt lonely so she is trying to step in and take over another family.  She's playing with the hearts of those young kids and she doesn't even care.  I'm glad the kids didn't inherent her crazy eyes.  Something is not right about that woman.  The mom who carried the twins is being very very accommodating because she is grateful but she has hopefully set some boundaries with crazy eyes.
 @AnnA-jd4xm The donor is the genetic parent or mother.  The biological mother is the woman whose womb the fetuses grew in.  She provided the biological environment for cell replication.  I worked in a reproductive clinic and the terms are not interchangeable for scientific reasons.  These terms are used throughout the field in this manner.  Even in other countries.
 @LoganGraceHope  I agree. I mean, I understand her. But my feeling was that she walk all over another family, not really being gently. But maybe she cooled down and now they find a way to function and support one another.
 @lvt2050  Any contact she would’ve had you would consider “walking over” the other women. Do you prefer a world where every single time a biological parent had a serious health issue/risk of one. That the child isn’t told? Because that’s what’s caused permanent donor anonymity to be dead and buried.
 @86Framer  yea, lets pretend that her manipulation, cyberstalking, and trying to overtake family is for children sake and not her selfish and self-centered sake.
 @lvt2050  if dna test is done then the egg donor is the bio mom
 @lvt2050  dui then why the birth mom didnt gave birth naturally if she got ability? Let me answer...because she was infertile...not chosen by god to be mom
 @nabaninandi4140  good luck forcing child to accept that kind of bio mom
 @nabaninandi4140  if she birth the child she was already chosen by god, otherwise she wouldn't birth the child, or your god is easily bypassed, then I wouldn't call it a god.
 @lvt2050  so u are saying a surrogate mom is bio mom...
 @lvt2050  no one is forcing them...here what I see both women.know their positions...the birth mom is grateful unlike u...she knows she is mom because a random stranger gave her that boon...and the bio mom is grateful to find a meaning to their lives...kids are happy to have two moms....whats ur issue...didn't u read the letter the birth mom wrote to the bio mom...
 @nabaninandi4140  Birth mom didn't right in her letter "thank you for allowing me to buy your eggs, feel free to came along whenever you like it and claim those kids as yours". My "issue" is that egg donor didnt wait for kids to find her,  but she chaise the kids because she didnt have her own. And I would have no problem if the donor didnt have vibes "those are MINE kids now".  I see stuff like that with women and man alike, both donating and then want to be part of children life without children asking for it. For me that is manipulative and just wrong.
 @AnnA-jd4xm the biological mother is the one who gave birth to them, do a little research to get the truth. You are incorrect but I thought the same thing until I looked it up.
 @aw1043  No, I'm not incorrect. The egg donor is the biological mother. The egg donor did not carry the children, their ''adoptive'' mother did.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  by law the birth mother is biological mother (except in surrogate). However both egg donors and birth mother can be consider biological because both processes are biological. The issue here is with "mother" part, only the woman that take care of a child can be consider the mother.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  by definition she is a biological mother "A biological mother is a woman who gave birth to a child or provided the egg that developed into an embryo." but it can be more strictly defined as birth mother or genetic mother, if she gave an egg, although I would gatekeep "mother" for only the person that actually did mothering.
 @lvt2050  She is their biological mother. Adoptive mom is their birth mother. It's not more complicated than that.
 @AnnA-jd4xm  lol...mother that birth them you call "adoptive" wtf? Do you know what adoption is, what adoption means? Why are you having issues with basic terms? Are you one of the donors thinking of donation as outsourcing parenting but hoping to be called parent at the end? If you are do not do it, you will be disappointed.
 @candysmith8724  so its a choice to never get married. we dont marry just to avoid loneliness 🙄
What did she take away? Those are two grown ass adults that can make their own decisions and have their own opinions on the matter, stop being a keyboard warrior,.
She didn’t donate a thing instead she SOLD her eggs for big money
This is why I find donation in general a bit weird..
I am guessing it did not work out.  He is MIA.
Honestly the bio mom is malicious, yeah donate your eggs that will expire at the end of month anyway, then wait for someone else to do the hard work and raise your kids then come 19 years later to claim them
4:29 needs correction. Only 1 of them is the Mother. Only one of them put in the work. Only one of them can have that tittle of Mother. The other is a donor and absolutely nothing else. Kudos to their mother for being open to this.
I have never been pregnant so my unused egg have been keeping up my period smooth 365 days a year. That’s how much difference there is between the egg and a desperate mother wanting to be a mom going through all this. To Birth Mom, They are the fruits of yours and your husband’s love. You brought them here safe on purpose. You have raised them well thought those years. You are one of the sweetest and selfless mom. Long live to you😘
Imagine finding out your brother and sister from this process and you're married. Did they not think this through?
Good on the adoptive mom accepting all of this.  As an adopted kid, thats a HUGE part of holding back looking.
The feeling of two mothers is paramount. As long as they are happy, contented it all that matters. The mother who donated her eggs got a family and the children got 2 mothers instead of 1. Life is unpredictable.accept it and make best of it.
Weird.  Lady is hunting down her eggs like she gave children up for adoption.
I would want to meet the mom before donating. Not just for disclosing medical history, but for peace of mind.
As someone who is going through fertility challenges this is my worst nightmare. Unless you’ve been through infertility you cannot understand the anguish, the powerlessness, the heartbreak, the ongoing grief… particularly if you have a beautiful marriage.   I am in tears today. I went back to the doctor only to see a waiting room full of pregnant women, wanting to be happy for them but also hating them because they have what is so desperately want. I don’t hate them but it’s soooo hard…I’d do anything to be able make love to my husband & see our love manifested in a little person. I want to see ME & HIM.   We’ve been told there’s no hope & to pursue donor eggs. Heart wrenching. Doing everything I can to wrap my mind around it & to then see a story like this… I don’t even feel like I want donor eggs now. The idea that another woman can come to my house & say these are her kids & then “my” kids jumping up and down so excited to see her & meet her. And then my husband being there too? “Oh hey babe, this is your real baby mama.”    Infertility is a nightmare. I wouldn’t wish it on anyone. I feel like if I moved forward I would still perpetually be facing ongoing heartbreak. If I did it and my kids turned 20 and acted this way, I feel like I might be in same emotional place I’m in now all over again. I literally hate this story & I am begging God to spare us from this. Please just let us have one baby. Please please please
In this case the correct language is required; this allows families using donor eggs/sperm the necessary boundaries to fully embody their roles.  She is the "donor" their "mom/mother" is the person who carried and raised them.
Something about the birth mother and this situation breaks 💔 my heart. I can't put my finger on it 😔.
They are both beautiful. Their mom and dad hit the jackpot. Hopefully they can establish a relationship that makes sense and also honors the mother that raised them
This is a beautiful story but I'm confused.  Who is the Dad????
I'm  74 year old man, I have great grandchildren which aren't biologically mine though I love very much, I was touched by this story. This brought tears to my eyes. How wonderful!! WOW!
That mom is so lovely,those kids got a loving mom to bring them into this world and love them as they grew up,i really hope the egg donor doesn’t try to take her place that would be so sad.That statement “those are my kids”,no,no they are not.
She did not adopt them. She carried, delivered and nursed them. She is their only mother.
 @AmalJibril-d7q  wasn’t your muslim god married to a child or something?
Why should it be prohibited.  She wasn't the one who reached out for contact. The adult kids reached out , it was their choice. She just wanted them to have the information.
It hurts my heart. I don't think God ever wanted kids to be raised this way.
 @john316godsolovedtheworld  So what, people who can't  have children  should not be allowed to have children using donor eggs? You don't know what god thinks so how would you know.
 @AmalJibril-d7q    Which is why a lot of people have  left that religion.  Why should people who can't have children not allow science to assist them.  Especially with participants who don't have a problem with it.
This is an unusual case. The vast majority of donors won't try to get in touch. Also the fertility clinic asked the mother first before giving the donor the families' details. You could just say no. 🙂 .   My mother may have been my biological mother and raised me (kind of)  but i dont look like her, and i have just gone no contact with her because she is a horrible abusive woman.  She didn't do any mothering, and I dont really see her as my mother. I feel like I never had one. I would have given anything to have a mother who desperately wanted me, and raised me with love and affection. I would not have cared AT ALL if her eggs weren't involved, and i personally dont think i would have wanted to find whoever provided an egg.   You sound like you need more  help to get through this  time than you are getting  - if possible maybe you could see a therapist? Or phone a helpline for someone to talk to about your feelings?    Things will work out. ❤
Don't lose hope. Spend time with God. Allow him to be your ultimate focus. Then you will find true joy. Ask him for his input on the situation. He's a good God.
I am in a similar place.. I have endo and surgery which had a huge impact on my fertility! I met my husband when we were in university and have been married for 9 years! Last year by some miracle I conceived naturally but that ended up in a miscarriage! I am now going through ivf, the first cycle had just 1 viable embryo which failed to implant!! I still have 2 cycles of ivf more else egg donation might be my only option! I feel you, all I want is a child with is a physical representation of the love my husband and I share, I have always wonder what a mixture of the both of us would be like!   I feel infertility is such a lonely battle, seems like to world is moving on its own and I am trapped in my own mind and dreams! So here wishing a miracle for both of us no matter how it is to hold and love a child one day - whether we share a dna or not with the child, definitely wish we share the love! ❤️
This hit me the same way as you wrote. We were told that was our only option and seeing this story confirms a lot of my fears and doesn't make it feel like the right decision. I am so sorry you are going through this.
 @JG-lv1wq  It's the loneliest journey with so much uncertainty! I am sorry you are going through this as well.
Im praying for you to get your own children as you wish 🙏 I am sure there is a reason for that and You are blessed by God. Please try law of attraction and mantras and also frequencies.  This story made me scary because the donor and the daughter had the same disrespectful the real mother. It's not only the look also they get personality from the donor. I really pray that you get your children whiteout needing any donor
Let's hope they are intelligent enough not to allow that to happen.
Looks like she's getting along very well with her children. They live not far from each other so there will be more contact and maybe sleepover at her house in the future. Hopefully, the mother who raised the children would feel loved by her children as time passes. The biological mother is a spontaneous and outgoing person(lawyer) compared with their gentle, kind and selfless mother.
What do you mean by the birth mother? I think the birth mother is the blond, but the genetic mother is the brunette.
 @mespb  The "birth" mother is the mother who gave "birth". I'm not going to watch the video again. Pretty simple concept. She looks deeply uncomfortable and unhappy about it all. I also don't like some of the phrases they are using. I feel like they're unfair to the BIRTH mother. Like when the egg donor told her friend, "Those are my kids!" They weren't her kids. Perhaps it's all biological. I hope I never need an egg donor because I wouldn't want them referring to my children as THEIR "kids."
 @UniversalMysticsOfChrist  yeah, I agree with you. Just the way some people are talking on this video, it sounds like because she donated an egg or two without any bonding, she’s the mom. I wouldn’t be surprised if they called her the birth mom (which is a lot of times what you call someone who gave up a kid for adoption). I can’t believe she called them her kids. It’s upsetting.
 @UniversalMysticsOfChrist  While I agree with the points you made, the birth mother doesn't look deeply uncomfortable, you're projecting.
 @sulagreen5792  How could I be projecting when none of this applies to me? It's simply empathy which Internet trolls tend to lack.
 @UniversalMysticsOfChrist  Your empathetic to how the situation might be making her feel, but she doesn't look deeply uncomfortable in these clips.
I completely understand what you mean. The donor is overstepping. Calling herself “mother”. I know people who have donated and would never call themselves mother. It just seems hurtful. Idk. Something about it is off.
Is it legal for her to have told the mutual friend?
It's amazing how welcoming and secure the non-biological mother was and also the biological mother!!! I have SO much respect and love for her. for both actually!! That was nice to watch.
I initially thought that this Amy lady had good intentions with sharing a potential hereditary medical issue. However I think after finishing the video she just wanted a way into those children’s lives. To call and old college friend and disclose that Karen’s children are hers is vindictive. No lady they are not your kids, you are a donor. None of her sweat, money or tears went into those kids. To simply come into their lives 20 years later and try to manoeuvre her way into their lives is extremely selfish. Complete disregard for their actual mother Karen.
"Her kids" they are not her kids... she sold her eggs.. poor woman who raised them...
In the Jewish religion , the mother is the one that carried them in her belly. She is the one that nourished them and grew them to be a viable fetus and a born human. The other one just donated her egg.
To me she’s just a donor. The one who raise them is the real mother
"These two mothers...". ?  No. The biological "mother" is...no shock here....single and childless and now realizing what she gave up.
I wish our egg donor had elected to have the option to reach out to her.  To thank her for the blessing she gave us (it took 4 years and our life savings to finally have our beautiful daughter) because we were almost to the point we had to stop trying...  and also so if our daughter ever had questions she had the option to ask them.
from 2:21 - to 2:33, "like," "like, "like," I'm like," the daughter makes me weep for the future.  "I'm like..."  this young woman can't put three words together without, "like."
The biological mother is pathetic. Not a day of raising children and now swoop in to reap the benefit of having the love of family
Omg! Just heard that she has no family! This is so selfish! What a terrible bit** of a woman! The mother doesn’t have a choice, because the kids are excited to know her... she's younger and of course trying her very best to be liked!! Appaling behaviour!
Such a wonderful story, how lucky these kids are to have two mothers who get along and are so grateful to each other for donating her eggs and to the other for being so accepting of the donor mom.
People should not do this. Just leave the children alone, and let them have their mom, that took care of them…
She is lucky! No pregnancy, birth, raising kids, spending money , i guess she received money for her eggs and when they finally meet, they have this great bond and she has all the pro's. Wow. Of course these are hèr kids.
I think it should be mandatory to know, because it is of great importance that you don't accidentally end up getting into a relationship with someone who might be a sibling or a cousin for obvious reasons.
Egg and sperm donation should NEVER be anonymous. It's not like adoption. These children are created deliberately, so all the adults involved should be prepared to be part of their life if the children want it.
"Those are my kids" I'm glad they met and had an happy ending and their mother is okay with them having a relationship, but they aren't "her kids" she was a donor.
The woman knew there was a biological mother and seems fine with the biological mother being included in her family.
The mother has no choice! The kids would be upset with her!
And the children of fallen Israeli soldiers whose grieving parents find women to carry their babies made with their dead son’s frozen sperm. Aren’t actually part of the father’s family?
Thank you this whole new report is a mockery and a joke , that lonely spinster will not be celebrated by me for trying to intrude on someone else’s family
She didn't want to do the hard part of motherhood. She donated her eggs for a reason she probably would've been a terrible mother. So idk about that. I feel like if she could move back in time she wouldn't have kept the eggs and raised the kids by herself.
The woman donated her eggs for someone to have a chance to have children who couldn't.  How in the world is that a bad thing...
She donated her eggs for someone who couldn’t have kids, didn’t have kids herself and then decided to take the kids back. I hope the mom who birthed and raised them truly feels ok with how everything worked out and it’s not just a front for the cameras.
 @Jaycee3  How she is acting now is the problem. Those are not her kids, but in her mind they are. That's not okay.
They’re her children by blood. If you don’t like the truth then I suggest you don’t have children this way. They will want to know what their real mother looks and acts like. Theirs some things that a just inherited. The daughter explained when she met her mother she instantly felt connected. That’s how God created it to be. Doesn’t mean the mother who received the eggs isn’t a mother. She is. She raised them and took care of them but oftentimes children that a curious will want more. That’s the risk you take by taking in children that aren’t your own
 @Truechildofgod  The mother who took the eggs also BIRTHED them and HOLD them for 9 freaking months.
@  Sorry but that does not make her a biological mother. I can’t change the facts. These kids will still have the blood mothers characteristics and genes. While she did the hard part( carrying them and caring for them) the kids obviously will want to connect to their blood mother it’s built inside of us as humans to want that. Stop preferring feelings over facts.
How wonderful they have two moms. One woman Donated her egg, another woman grew the children in her womb, how can they not be biologically related? They are related in every possible way. How cool is science, how cool is nature for us to witness something like this? Its a true miracle anda devine blessing!
Dang she is just bulldozing her way into all their lives because she regrets her decision not to marry and have children.
I know that this is a great story with a happy ending but as someone who used a donor egg to conceive my son, I'm not sure that she should've told Sunday that those children were "her kids. "  The Mom may not have even told her kids that she used a donor egg yet or at all & more importantly, she may not want other people to know that she even used a donor egg. I'm not saying it's something to be ashamed of at all but it IS very private information that she may not have wanted Sunday to know. Remember they only knew each other through political things; she may not have been close enough with Sunday to have shared that information.
They are her kids, yes we get it. But when you sign a contract stating its rules then one should be mature about it and abide by it. That is why it's very important to understand what you are going into before agreeing. Do research, Google up your concerns, go to YouTube, search search, and search until you find concrete knowledge about your questions.  What this biological mother did was so wrong. You were paid to do this cuz you accepted the terms of what you were entering. People 🤦‍♀️
That sounds like intruding in their lives. Those are not her kids.
I get the curiousity, but this might leave her empty after.. Realizing she "has kids" but never birthed them or raised them. Especially, not having kids of her own.
It is a very small world sometimes...and this is a beautiful example of how great that can be...an unselfish act that produced so much love and joy for them all....
I'm too immature and territorial to fathom being okay with the donor being around.   But God bless them all and I wish them the best.
What gorgeous kids!!! But this must be confusing for them! Egg donor should not say those are HER kids! She didn't raise them or carry them.
If I had kids that were someone else's biologically and they wanted to look for them when they grew up I think that would tear my heart out 😭
I don’t why but this brought sadness to my heart for all of them this is not a normal thing
Legally, the biological mother IS the mother who gave birth. She's not an adoptive mother and she's not a surrogate. The egg donor cannot say "my" kids.
this seems like a wholesome story because both parties were looking for each other, but something about donating your eggs and then trying to trick into getting information for selfish purposes.  saying "one day i knew it was time and i was ready" as if the meeting up felt solely on one person   thankfully it ends well, but in any other case it would an overreach of a donor.
Something weird about about all this. They're acting like they're her long lost kids. They're not. She was a donor and nothing more. The donor gurl is definitely having some sort of crisis.
This feels so invasive as she moved in a stole a family.
To make it seem like she did something altruistic, when in reality she SOLD her eggs, then basically went stalking until she could find the kids once SHE was alone and in her 40’s is insane. This woman is selfish and I honestly wouldn’t be surprised 😮 if the children stopped talking to her in the future.
Dang, the children were busy looking for her at the same time.
No it's not a great story. The donor has no right to tell out there someone else's privacy its out of law and the real mom doesn't have to tell her private story to a stranger even if its a donor. to me, its only parents right to tell the kids about donor if they want. in my country people feel ashamed about that and never tell anybody even the children and I think its not necessary too. its gonna just keep the minds busy. God bless you and your lovely family
So…in your ideal world. The daughter would’ve died young from a preventable death by cancer?  Everyone wanted to meet each other and the laws are changing across the globe to protect donor conceived people’s lives, which are more important than their parents egos
 @86Framer  in the ideal world she would just state the new information she learned, and a 3rd party would ensure that info got to he family without at the same time revealing the name of the family.
I get where you’re coming from, but from the children’s perspective.. it is cruel to deprive them of knowing who their biological parent is if they felt like they need that closure. It sounds like the kids did..
@cortezconquistador She was not there for the most important time in their life.  They have one mother and that is the one that raised them and was there for them.
The child of a donor has another family. You don’t take that away from them or act like it doesn’t exist to play make-believe. Same as adopted children. If the child is now an adult, it’s weird and selfish of the adopting parent/donee to not want to live in the truth of the matter.
 @khutchinsoncpa1  you do take away that right when you knowingly sign a contract that states that.  The donor is made fully aware of the rules of her donation. She’s the one that starts the “make believe” contract.  She wanted the mother title without actually caring for a child   If you want to talk about selfish, let’s talk about the donor. She was in a moment where she no longer had anyone, and suddenly remember to bring up a family history disease to trick into getting personal information.  This all could have gotten terribly wrong, and just puts a dark mark on recipient that will now fear the donor finding them
She was happy and proud of getting around another way of locating her children. Hopefully she doesn't dominate or affect the kind and generous mother's relationship with her birth children who seemed to get along very well with her.
Do you know her story? Probably not. So just shut up and be kind.
The children have a biological family as well as an adoptive one. Taking that truth away from them is wrong. Their legal mother didn’t lose anything.
the children (who are adults in their 20s) said they wanted to know who their biological mother was. The children wanted to make that connection. children have a right to know where they came from, their birth mother with fertility problems cannot expect the children to ignore the natural human desire to know who your BIOLOGICAL family is
Children can have more than one mother and father.  Karen is such a gift herself.  She has so much love.  I have seen in adoptive processes where the children do not want to find their biological parent while their adoptive parent is alive because they are afraid of hurting them.  Adoptive parents should always encourage their child to know who their biological parent is.
I have to say, this should be prohibited. let the people adopt children or something else. I would never wanted to be born this way.
This is so cringe… being a donor doesn’t make you their mother.
3:47 You can definitely see they are biological Mother and Daughter. They look so much alike.
I don't really consider the donor as their mom in any way. She just happens to share dna with them. If it weren't her eggs it would have been someone else's with the father. She did not conceive these kids and give them up (if that were the situation I would consider her as the birth mother).  Nor was she a surrogate who again - conceived (key word) these kids. As she did not engage in their conception (whether naturally or via ivf) she is an egg donor imo (which btw is a beautiful thing). However, the logic of her being considered their mother is flawed imo, and not far removed from the idea that every egg a woman has is a child.  There are a few very crucial steps afterwards to result in a pregnancy. Whilst her eggs were used to complete the process, she did not actively engage in any of those additional steps to conceive these two people. That was most likely orchestrated by the lady they know as their mother. Which includes the decision of whose sperm would be used.
So she lived out a selfish life, found it lonely in her twilight years, and used a dubious legal loophole to lay claim to children that she literally sold before birth to fill that void. Got it. 😒
My beautiful daughter from a beautiful lady who gave birth to her own daughter three months after my baby. These two girls regularly play and talk on the phone, through the iPad. They are best friends with a deep bond. Her mother and I are very close too. I am thankful for my extra family. She helped to make my life complete, I love her for that and this amazing little human being.
Something about using eggs & sperm as a “harvest for profit”  commodifies  children. There are so many ethical issues that seem to be ignored in favour of the more immediate feel-good conclusions.
Its good to help women who can't have children on their own and there's good reasons for the anonymity, but there are also tons of stories siblings not knowingly having relationships with their biological brother/sisters. Surely, this issue should also be considered as children's rights to know their biological parents.
the son has the egg donor mom on his fb as a friend , but the daughter does not i wonder what happened there
lost her age and now she realizes that Children mean something in a person's life. Sad most Women today are on the same lonely path. Good luck with that Ladies
that's one of the best reaction i have seen from birth mother to egg donor mother.  You see oth can be present in a healthy way ! it's the best for their kids. And i don't know why adopters and birth parents don't get along more like this family. The children should always be taking in consideration. they need to know! And after everybody feel better.
That was beautiful.  Am glad they were all receptive to the idea of meeting each other.  God bless both mummies and children.
1:58 techincally they are not "her kids", just her eggs and some other mans sperm and someone elses uterus so yeh kinda selfish to say "those are my kids"
This is horrible!!  Do you know how much women struggle with the concept of egg donation and as in researching I have to see this?!!  The fear about it pops up!!! How do I remove this from my algorithm because it will not stop!!
Something about feeling entitled to call those children yours 1:55 when you chose to donate them instead of raise them doesn’t sit right but to each their own…  You chose not to have kids 3:58 yet it seems she went the extra mile to pursue them as adults, so I’m just curious as to why now? 4:13 What if she wrote the note to herself? 🫢😂
This is one of the most beautiful stories ive ever saw
This is so incredibly insensitive. Anyone “born this way” is completed valid. Families are created all kind of ways and to leave a comment like this and make someone “born this way” to feel ashamed or embarrassed is cruel. This is why so many kids who have “non-traditional” families feel insecure sometimes because as a society, we can be extremely cruel,  ignorant and insensitive. Think before you speak.
 @victorblock3421  I mean its thier issue to deal with, not this random stranger on the interent. There the ones going through this.
Her biological children and many other donor conceived people disagree with you.  Your attitude is why so many clinics oftentimes aren’t even about successful pregnancies. So, we end up with people who die or having serious health problems from not having accurate family health histories (like what could’ve happened to Nabiliah here). And we’ve unfortunately ended up with half sibling “pods” of 60, 80, or 100 plus people being common place.
just happens to share DNA lmao you people are something else
As a lawyer, she knows her way (back door). Hope that she doesn't dominate and affect the kind and generous mother's relationships with her children who seemed to get along very well with her.
“ when I thought 💭 how am I going to get to them ?!  Then aha I remember… my mom has a cancer and I have to tell them “ 😂😬 says enough about her
Would you say the same thing about the men who donated their sperm or abandoned their kids? If she didn't donate her eggs their wouldn't be any kids at all
To be fair, the biological mom is, the kids look like her. Their mother has the most gorgeous heart though
​​@Loveabounds. Their names are Nebila and Faudel, which are Arab names.
 @wapiamy266  True, also when you donate sperm or eggs, you have no control over who will receive that child.
Why is a bad thing that donor conceived children have a relationship with their biological parents?
 @86Framer if the biological mother wanted to be their mother 🤰🏾 she would have carried them 9 months in her own womb.  Not sell the egg have someone else birth and raise the child now you come back and want a relationship.   It's sick and selfish & the ovarian cancer thing, she could have reached out to the mother first with the information, she didn't and found the child and put them in the middle like a custody battle.     You make people not want to use donor eggs.  You have such liberal mindset & I don't even know you.    Go to the grocery store and buy eggs and let the grocer come to your home unannounced and eat those same eggs that you prepared for your family talking about you forgot your change at the register! Bet you would kick his butt out.
Exactly what i was thinking. She definitely gave me narc vibes.
That’s so messed up. In an alternate scenario, imagine kids meeting their sperm donor biological father.
This is 100% wrong. Those children have been looking for that biological missing part of them their entire lives. Egg donation is an elective decision. This is only about the parents. What about what the children go through? I'm heart broken for them 💔
When you are young all you think about is yourself and your carrier,   only when you grow old do you realise how important it is to have children, but by that time usually it's too late.
When you donate your eggs. You are donating your genetics & lineage so another person can have a child. Simple as that. Whether the genetic mother, the biological mom, and the children choose to connect is up to them. But women need to be informed clearly that donating eggs is you literally donating your child basically to another person.
If I am the donor I’m going to stay tf out of someone else’s life, they are not my kids someone else loved and raised them. If they ever want to meet me on their own, I will meet them and keep it minimal. If I want kids I will have my own , love and raise them.  This is very selfish of the donor to intrude and refer them as her own kids.   “ when I thought 💭 how am I going to get to them ?!  Then aha I remember… my mom has a cancer and I have to tell them “ 😂😬 says enough about her
If her mother died of ovarian cancer she put herself at higher risk of getting it herself by going through the process of donating eggs. 🤦‍♀️🤦‍♀️🤦‍♀️🤦‍♀️
I could never donate my eggs. I would feel like that woman took my kids
I don't see the women donor as the mother.  Sorry!  This is so weird
Honestly, I think she made a good choice. She passed on her beautiful genetics, and let another women who could emotionally commit to the children pass on the love.
This is why they are going to think of egg donor as real mom
This is so beautiful it hurts, the egg donor now has a whole new family to support her in a time of life she'll need them the most! Thank you so much for sharing, Merry Christmas, 2024!
Technically, the birth mother is the biological mother. The egg donor is the genetic donor.
How wonderful to have 2 mothers! Amy looks so fantastic when she donated till now
I never understood how can a woman give her eggs to someone. I just don’t get it.
After she found out she will never have kids she came back to take the ones she gave to donor, this is so fked up.
Omg.  The shot at 3:45 with the two of them together.😭😭😭They look like SISTERS.  Beautiful story.
The ovarian cancer was her EXCUSE! not her reason. She is a liar.
I cannot imagine giving away my genetic material so other people create MY child. A child is not a gift. I wouldn't be able to live peacefully knowing that my child is somewhere out there in the world and I have no idea if he's treated right. Any child of mine is my responsibility,  and to relinquish that responsibility for a human life is immoral.
The issue is children who don’t have an amazing mom like the one in this story. The bad ones who think that their children don’t need to be told they’re donor conceived. Can you imagine parents not wanting to protect their children from dying preventable deaths, than tell them they’re donor conceived?
so every egg is a child? and every lost egg during menstrual cycle is a killing? what happened if child have bone marrow transplant, then by DNA test it will have genetic connection to bone narrow donor, is that mean that bone narrow donor is now there parents, because you know DNA?
She is their biological mother not their donor. She is their mom’s donor.
He makes me think of this B&B guy, is it Ron Moss?
 @Hamaswife  I do. I have a daughter using an egg donor. I biologically created her in my womb using donated genes from a donated egg and my husband’s sperm. My biology created her.
 @Hamaswife  I technically “own” the fertilized egg too. If we’re speaking legalese
you're not the biological mother as you didn't pass any genes to your child. You're the birth mother.
Then egg donation is not for you and you shouldn't do it. It's as simple as that. Other people deserve the right to choose if that's what they want and are comfortable with though. You can have your opinion and stance on it but stay in your lane.
Imagine if all egg donors and birth parents who gave their children up for adoption started contacting the recipients out of nowhere or by exploiting loopholes, solely for their own benefit, with no regard for others. They begin referring to the children as their own and want to plan Christmas and other events for them. While this might bring excitement and a sense of novelty to the children, it could create significant strain on the long-term relationship between the parents and their kids.   If you donate, it is your responsibility to stay away from someone else's life. If you contact the parents, they might say yes out of a sense of ethics, but they likely wouldn't appreciate the intrusion. This particular lady sounds like a control freak.
Those are NOT your kids, that's absurd. You simply donated your eggs.
I'm sorry but eggs don't fertilize themselves, where is the father?
Once kids are 21 they should be made aware of their biological parents and probably visit them also.
Those children are gorgeous. I love seeing this - most human beings cannot reach this level of unconditional love and support. So many would be too insecure, too possessive, too greedy or not open enough to share the bond with the children like both these mothers have. Its something you rarely see and so inspiring. Both mothers are exceptionally kind human beings which may have something to do with it!  Despite all the beautiful love here there are still people hating on this - says it all really.
This is cringe. Lady sells her eggs for cash and then sells a story about it like it's some miracle thing.
The children sound like they had a good life. Their mom and family took good care of them, love them, nurtured them. The mom is so kind, secure and understanding to let the kids know their origin, even to share that information when they were young. They're beautiful young adults and it's a win win: more love, more family, more connection, the better, in my book.
I will never understand how anybody can abandon their children, by “donation”. Be it a man or a woman. And I will never understand how that can be legal. Because it is unethical as hell.
This is just WRONG.. Let me explain. Imagine that a woman donate her eggs a couple of times to different people. The children that are born from it are biological siblings.. Also the same with sperm donations. And Imagine that they meet each other without knowing and start a love relationship.. So I think it’s definitely wrong!
This is one of the rarest and amazing case😊 I am so happy to see that
Its a blessings that there is someone out there who will be there for your children
Wow that is incredible! What a beautiful, amazing story! I truly believe God works in mysterious ways. Amy sure did make some beautiful babies! ❤️❤️
“ when I thought 💭 how am I going to get to them ?!  Then aha I remember… my mom has a cancer and I have to tell them “ 😂😬 says enough about her.  Any proactive parent knows that this is not a “ hero” story.  The heroes are the parents who were there in the ups downs of their kids life,  loved them, raised them.  Don’t claim they are your kids please. You “donated “ eggs for a money or not. Parenthood requires a lot more than that.
I was broke once upon a time and thought of donating my eggs for money. but I couldn't bring myself to do that, I'm serving a living God how am I going to explain myself that u have children all over the place that I know nothing about.
there are ways to prevent that, but otherwise incest is not that bad, humanity did it all the time
Incest is not bad? Maybe ask the people who suffer from genetic disorders because of it.
OMG! you're so right!!! I don't know other countries but in Turkey we have to take genetic test before marriage so there should not be any problem for the future kids.
me too...I cant believe I cried. I think I am so used to seeing negative crap that this mad me so happy.
That is a very poor thought out policy of not disclosing information it opens to the possibility of possible incestuous situations unknowingly.
The bio mom was so lonely, thankfully the blond mom has a very kind and warm soul, almost like a mother to the bio mom. It seems she found the family she longed for, beautiful story ♥️
Mother??? WTF, push the brakes, yes thank you lady for this incredible gift, yes she is a biological donor. But mother? Hell no. If those eggs never had been used she wouldn't have nothing to search. Its not like a mother that carried a baby in her womb felt it grow and put it on adoption , definitely not the same.
They're not her kids though only biologically. She didn't raise them.
I love how positive all these people are. Its a lovely sight.
This not a cute story at all, that is awful and selfish to even dig into this.
Shes probably regretting donating her eggs and not even having her own children...thats just sad
This story made me cry the power of motherhood and the attachment is beyond words
What I find funny of those who say, "She's their biological mother" as if to validate her presence within the relationship of the children, is that, Amy, is technically a deadbeat mom with zero accountability. She didn't & doesn't pay child support & wasn't emotionally there for them for the last twenty years & yet there are those who support her all the same. I am sensing MAJOR hypocrisy here. I can only imagine if somehow Amy was a guy & this happened, what the comment section would truly look like.  Now that were on the subject, women who donate their eggs (with a larger income than the birth mother) should start paying child support to the birth mother. It's only fair & a perfect test to weed out those plagued with hypocrisy & double standards.
Someone's cutting onions.  I love how she kept that letter, and how true were those words were written in the thank you note.  What a great story.  How fortunate are those kids to have people who love them dearly...
I think it is very bizarre for the biological mother to suddenly go "how about i meet those kids that someone else gave birth to with my eggs" .
When you donate your eggs that doesn’t make her a debt wtf?? If I donated I most definitely wouldn’t intrude any medical info needing to be given maybe give through the mother that raised them. But Karen didn’t mind so guess no harm no foul
 @kuroe-chan5190  Yeah, my post was referring to the coterie of people who want to validate Amy as a mother without the responsibilities that comes from being one. My argument is: If you want to be a mother, then you have to play the mother role. Simply selling your eggs & looking upon such an investment years later doesn't, in my eyes, make you a mother.
I heard it was a painful process; glad she was able to see and meet them. Nice children and able to handle this miracle!
God is so amazing...the bond and connection between parent and child. Some people realize the immense preciousness of children until moments like these. God's Love and Blessings to them all ✝️ 🙌 💜.
I can't donate my eggs; if I have a child out there I should be the one raising the child. Imagine having children you don't even know exists.
This made my eyes tears, I have one son and one nephew and need to buy a home…. I’m currently renting and I find it really hard to do all as a single woman so I’m thinking of donating my eggs. I’m not all the d Way sure but I’m thinking about it.
imagine having two unbelievable specimens of the human race come from your body and never meeting them until later. That must be such an incredible boost.
You can tell that they're in politics. To come up with the idea to tell someone that there was cancer and that's the way you can get into the life of kids is very strange. When you donate something you don't ask for it back or to see it
IDK I thought that was wrong of the donor mom to reach out two others without reaching out to the mom to see if it was okay to contact the kids. Donor mom is acting like she had a good life didn't have to worry about raising kids and now is bored lonely and wants to step in and start being a mom. I feel bad for the mom raising those kids and being the one called Mom all these years until now
What a beautiful story. I wish I had done that in my 20s. I never married and had children, so it would've been great knowing that I blessed another woman/family with my eggs. Ah well, I live through these beautiful stories 🤗🤗
That is a wonderful story to share at Christmas. Thank you ... two years later.
Two wonderful mothers who opened their hearts for a stunning outcome.
This is such an amazing story, that warms you to the core. I'm happy for all of them.
A lot of people hating how because she didn't birth them they're not her kids... Politically, that's correct but biologically, well, it's obvious they're her kids.  The twins were over the legal age of 18 and they CHOSE to meet her and whatever happens is their decision. Those kids already understand mom#1 went through the pains and consequences of being a mother but mom#2 is their natural mother and connection is there forever too.
I'm an egg donor. It's anonymous, but the child or children are legally enabled to find out who their biological mother is once they turn 18. I have no children of my own and I so much wish that I get to know... I wish the child could get to meet my dad before he passes, because he is such a wonderful person.
I’m totally crying so happy for her and the kids . I had to sign my youngest daughter away to be adopted when she was a year and half and we have always kept in touch and I’m still mom I couldn’t imagine not knowing where she is who she is with etc
Biological mother???? How the hell she can be called biological mother when the other lady conceived and made the baby ....
I want to comment about 2 things:  About the video: The mother seems a good person and i assume she used this egg transplant method because she had no other choice.  About the "Donate" method: Raising a child and even breast feeding it WONT change the childs DNA. Of course, its being will be partially from you; you will be a wet nurse (in Islam it is called "milk mom"). But IMAGINE: If everyone in a country could easily use a sperm/egg rather than his own, marrying a bio brother/sister would be unavoidable.  And if you're asking: "Why would so many people use a sperm/egg rather than his own?"  The answer is simple: Who would not want his child to be strong, good looking or smart?  You know what i mean...let that sink.
3:46 unmistakably mother and daughter - beautiful! I hope they're all still doing well!
These kids were put in the right home! Wow! What nice kids... Great job MOM!!!
What is slap in the face to the mother that raised them.
Pretty awesome how the kids had each other during this, instead of being split up.
Her kids are gorgeous but my heart breaks for the mom who raised them
What is anyone doing feeling bad for this family when they’re all happy?   Sure it was a transaction, not a donation  Sure they’re not her kids in that sense but they are biologically  If you gave away your eggs , you may be curious to know what happened to the children when they grew up. It’s pretty amazing to reproduce and not know who else shares half your DNA.   It’s pretty innocent and awesome.   Plus if I’m the mom, and my kids are absolutely wonderful, I’m going to be forever grateful to the person who gave me their eggs. I’d love to meet them. They changed my life. They gave me my kids .
I appreciate the donor and wanting to connect. As long as she doesn't expect to much from the relationship. Or override. The birth mother is so kind
What an amazing story and the fact that she wrote that letter unknowingly it would really play out tenfold❤ the biological mother who doesn't have any family now has family so in turn both of these mothers created a beautiful future
That’s why the number of genetic diseases were up  Because of incest  I remember back in 2006 I guy married his love but can’t have kids  When they tested their DNA the result choked them guess what, they were siblings
The story is a perfect example of ray of sunshine in a dull life can come in unexpected ways.
It’s nice they can get along so many people are so insecure they couldn’t dealt with sharing their kids..
The two moms look like they needed companionship and I’m glad they found it in each other. It looks like it was just them three so it’s nice to have an addition to the family and you can see it brings them jolly so don’t judge.
*correction - she donated her eggs bc law school is very expensive.
I had to watch 3 times with lots of rewinds to figure out who was who between the names, facebook pics, the mother, the friend both looked similar...   But I got it done.   Beautiful story ❤
no family , no kids of her own, but she has 2 biological children who are not hers... That's kind of sad
The egg donor is just that, an egg donor. THE REAL mother is the one who gave birth and raised them.
Can you imagine how much this woman means to that mother. She has kids because of her.
She was a Knockout! 10/10. Idk how a girl that pretty had no kids of her own ! Blessings to her and her children and their mother :D A wonderful story
The woman who bought the eggs looks in her 60s, so she was mid 40s when she had these kids, I guess left it too late? No way the donor did it to help someone else. She was probably around 20 and could really use the money.
I Love the absence of ego and just the pure loving energy they all have. we could all learn from these people <3
This is just an another example how wrong the idea that egg donors are disattached from the process is...
It’s one thing to biologically share the same genes. But the most important thing is the process. To take care of those children every day from infancy, to raise them with love and attention, It’s a matter of looking at them. The mother is the one who gives them effort.
That is a very cool and heartwarming story!   I'm guessing dad is not in the children's lives, as that part of the story was missing leaving questions. anyway  Congrats to the two moms and the twins..  neat.
Life is a gift no matter who or where yor  parents are. If possible kids have right to know if you live or not. Just to know whos offspring they are and continue connection into the future.
She has no kids of her own?? Wow!! Now she is blessed with a lot! Hope they have a great relationship for the rest of their lives🎉
أستغرب شتات الأسر في بلدان الغرب و الاستهتار بقيمة الابناء في حياة الوالدين و حكاية تأجير الأرحام .. كاااااارثة إنسانية خطيرة جدًا
If you truly love your child then there should be no problem if biological mom also loves them you should be happy for that that someone is also loving them like their mom there should be no insecurity
This is why this should be against the law , these kids wanted to know who they were.
She picked the right women to donate her eggs too those babies look happy and grateful and the adoptive mom just wanted her babies to find peace and there place in this world
Forgive me for thinking this is not only heartwarming in some ways but also awkward and extremely sad !
When I met my wife she had an 8 month old baby and the father didn t want it and asked her to get an abortion. She went with it and during the pregnancy the guy kept on saying he wanted then that he didn’t want to be the father.. at the end of the day he was never registered as the father and the baby got her mom’s last name. So we started our relationship when the baby was 1yo, when she was 2 she started calling me daddy.. then got married to her mum, had 2 other daughters and I have adopted her. The biological father has his parents next to her school and sometimes my wife sees him, and they ignore each other. I don’t really want my daughter to meet her biological father tbh. I don’t want him near her life. She is now 6, and she will decide when she will be older. I just think it’s a bit too easy to show up when the kid is 20 and reconnect.
An egg is so much more precious than a sperm. IMO if the family is accepting why can they not have a relationship.
I feel like God definitely makes these divine appointments available for us, but our free will is the deciding factor. This is amazing and beautiful.❤
Such a beautiful woman with no children of her own. I hope it wasn't an ideology that led her to that decision. She is clearly elated knowing she has offspring.
These kids are wonderful ! They just look like her bio mom !
Both the mothers are chill, the children are chill. Everything is fine. But the comment section is in fire? Why?
Is it hurtful to the mom/ parents when the kid they raised go looking for their bio parents?
This is awesome. The children have a right to know where it all started. Godbless
They are not her kids , she did not raise them
This is so amazing and gave me goosebumps!!! Makes me cry happy tears 🥹 🩷
Wow the fact that she never had any babies and now they meet! Best of both worlds
Would you say the same thing about the men who donated their sperm or abandoned their kids? If she didn't donate her eggs there wouldn't be any kids at all. You're acting like you can't have both. Working moms exist. She just didn't want the hard parts of motherhood.
I can't imagine donating my eggs.  I might as well just sell my babies on the street corner for a profit!
As a Brazilian man I see so much hate here. I mean come on, let them be happy and feel the connection that has emerged.
When 2 genuine people meet is only going to be like this
That is just so beautiful, I cannot describe it with any other word.
I‘m sorry for the mother who raised the children, she put all the work inside this kids and now there’s this biological mother who takes all the good things for herself, doing nothing in the hard years.
It's so nice to see happy news stories for a change versus the tragedies and drama these broadcasters are always covering 😩
God gave her back a family ,she lost both parents and had no one,God is so so Good
All this is crap until theres no kid left to adopt.
2:24 How can a Mother who gave birth to kids not be biologically related?? They ARE biologically related to both mothers.
Holy cow, what great looking and grounded kids. Great job Moms.
They say what u put out into the universe comes back to you double time, touching reconnecting 🙏🏽
❤❤❤❤ what a nice story ❤ those children deserve all their parents
I considered being a donor at one point, just because it pays well and i needed the money.  Then i changed my mind because i wasn't comfortable with having unknown kids out there.  It's like having pieces of me scattered and i would feel like  parts of me are missing.
How can someone stand to have a kid out there that they never get to see grow up
Why is she so proud of finding a small loop hole in the system and exploiting it to get what she wants?   Didn't she make a promise all those years ago???
what a nice story, and what beautiful people they turned into.
This is a mess. The biological mom will definitely develop a bond with the kids and the one who raised them will become a surogate mother. The  dynamic is so unhealthy. This whole concept of donating eggs is so wierd
So she sold her eggs for cash and is calling them her kids when she didn’t carry them?
There should be a facility to enable everyone in a similar situation to connect without having to be connected to risk of genetic disease
The fact that her college room mate would have befriended the recipient of her donation unbeknownst to either of the two of the parties and have remained in the dark herself would seem to be sort of a synchronous/kismet type of miracle. Does it not ???
Am I the only one who feels sorry for the egg donor’s parents who died having never met their biological grandchildren even though they lived nearby. Not to mention seeing their daughter unmarried and alone when they both died.
This is not right for the woman who used the eggs to start a family.
Seven degrees of separation, except in this case, there were fewer than seven to connect.    Good attitudes by all involved.    I remember reading about a family where all did a DNA test together and found out their daughter wasn't related.    She was born premature and got swapped with the girl of another family.     The family was able to track the other family down, and they were living not far away in the same town, and both families got to meet their biological daughters, even though both girls said that they considered the parents that raised them to be their "real" parents.    Both families looked at this as gaining a daughter.
It’s wonderful they can all be together and make a family
I know that some people couldn't have children without help like this... but I feel like it should always be an open process if it happens at all, and adoption should be rigorous but not as expensive as it is.
So many upset people commenting in the comment section. They are ALL consenting adults who appear happy about the situation. These aren't minors we are talking about here. The adult children as ADULTS can CHOOSE to have their biological mother in their life. It's up to them just how much she can be in their life. If you were an adopted child or foster child I think you'd also be curious to know who your biological parents are. If the mother who raised them refused to disclose information about their biological mom that would also be viewed as selfish. She would be wanting them for herself. People aren't objects or materials. We have freewill to decide things for ourselves.
Fault is with the donor.  Probably prioritized career and independence too much.  The consequence when you think you don't need a man in your life.
the story made me angry for the mother that raised these ungrateful twins. You can tell she is a peaceable woman and allowed this lonely bozo to come in and claim her kids but I wouldn’t allow it. Now I know I’ll never take donor eggs. I’m not sacrificing my life and risking death just for some kids to embrace some random woman like she’s their mother. 😤
This is such a neat story!!  yall got tears welling up over here.
Kinda feel bad for the blonde lady. I hope the kids dont treat her any differently knowing they have a younger mom in the picture now
The twins are so good-looking. The son has to get rid of the hair between his two eyebrows though.
This is a beautiful story. Not everyone wants the same thing to happen in their lives, but this worked well for everyone, I am happy for them all!
Great for you all . There should be much more room for the ones that want to know . At least all parties can be asked if they are open for it . Goodluck from Ireland.
I hope they make the biological mom feel bad.  Yes, I roll like that.
So now the real mother gets the love of her children without having to raise them, got it.
Thanks for the videos ! I would never tell my kids now.
The last missing piece is WHO is the biological father? ❤
Yeah I'm glad they're all OK with meeting, but the blond woman's kids seem a lot more well-adjusted than their donor and I hope they realize pretty quick that sticking with the woman who raised them is the right call.  The way her mom dying of cancer is a good thing she could take advantage of; yeah nah there's some flavor of froot-loops going on there.  Cool to meet donor like a fun aunt, but don't get it twisted, they owe her nothing.
Yeah, it all turned to be wholesome but... I have to say, it did irk me the way she posed as the mom. I don't know, as an egg donor, I won't lie and say I'm not curious about the children created with my genetic material, but it seems out of line to me to look for them, let alone call myself their mom '-'
Y’all make biology a big deal when it comes to trans folks. Keep the same energy for this situation as well. Whether y’all like it or not she is the mother of those two children.
I think people are missing the part of « Her mom died of ovarian cancer », so she donated her eggs instead of judt removing them.
I watched it right up until the twins spoke then turned off, I couldn’t understand what they were saying half of the words that came out their mouth was the word LIKE. They have the intelligence of shaggy doo. And the egg donor mother thinks the twins are hers when another woman their mother carried them
Does the recipient get to choose the doner? Cause gad dayum she chose some good looking genetics.
Those kids are so good looking, as well as the bio mom. Now it's time to find the father.
What lucky kids, to be able to have two loving moms!
I’m confused!  HOW did the bio mom and the adoptive mom KNOW each other??   Thsnk u SO much!!
All those mums who have now lost a child, what a fantastic system.
Why would the egg donor want to meet the kids.  They aren't her kids.  I just don't get it
There is something off about the donor. A lack of empathy and sensitivity towards the blonde mom and what she must be going through. Sure, the blonde mom is being extremely graceful, patient and kind about the situation - but she wouldn't be human if this didn't sting somewhere. The donor should be much more humble, sensitive and respectful and not waltzing in like this is how it was always meant to be, or like she has some kind of "right" to enjoy her biological children after the blonde mom has done all the work. I would somehow understand the donors behavior more if this had been a case where she would have given birth and had to give up her babies as a teenager or something like that, but no - she was a D O N E R. I hope all involved could be more gracious and empathetic to how conflicting and threatening this might feel to the mom who raised them (regardless of the fact that she's being a trouper on the outside).
Totally agree with you. The poor adoptive mother just looked like she's been made redundant, no matter what she says. This egg donor has No husband , no family,  she's going to manipulate those twins away from there mum.😢 it's sad because I can see the blonde lady loosing her family. 😢😢
Why don't you donate eggs if you don't want to have kids on your own like this woman. Later in your life you still can find fulfillment
“The twins now 18 are on the same path as their biological mother.”  My stupid self: oh…they’re donating eggs.
What a cute fun story❤ heartwarming ❤ very happy for them all
I dont see nothing wrong in this story. Her and the others are happy so thats what matters. seeing these stories makes me glad i didn’t donate eggs. But good for them.
A careerist woman having no kids/husband/family at the age of 40+, who would’ve thought? Xddd
This is an interesting dilemma.  On one hand I personally would be very interested to learn of any child I had out there and would feel connected and even love them upon meeting them, but on the other hand the only parent in the situation is the one who raised them.
People “dismiss” BIOLOGY these days… ESPECIALLY “these days”… in a lot of ways and circumstances.  But, Biology is important… always has been, always will be!!
❤ listening to this, how can anyone say abortion is okay
She gave a good gift….the blonde mom got 2 wonderful kids.  And the biological mom got an extended family.
That was a very foolish thing she did.  She treated the lives of her own biological cheaply, and wanted to have her cake and eat it. God must have indirectly decided that she does not deserve to be married, and have any more children because she threw her eggs away.
No. This is human trafficking. No one has the right to have a child.
The fact that both women are rightfully their biological mother is interesting.  The donor would be their genetic mother while Sunday would be their   gestational mother and caregiver.  Was hoping they show the Dad in this.
One day you don’t have any kids, the next, you have two and a lifetime with your new family
So, abusive people should have the right to be parents because they're biologically able to, but people who really want to have kids and love them shouldn't because nature said no?
We will always want to have  our own kids remember that ladies and gentlemen, you'll regret being alone later ❤❤
I was disconnected from my biological mom. It always felt like I was pissing her off as a kid. She was married 3 times so I figure it was a male thing she had the problem with and I was paying for husbands sins. Come to find out, 28 years after her passing, she was what we now call bipolar. She needed medication to even out her mood swings. I never knew it until my older sister told me just this year. It makes a lot of sense in hindsight. I just wished I would have known that at the time. Perhaps we could have had a better relationship.
I Love This Soooo Much, congratulations to all of you ❤️❤️❤️🤗🤗🤗🌹
All the haters here. Those kids wanted to know her. Still a beautiful tummy and youthful look yet she has children. Boils the blood of many!
2:09 Why He Looked Like A Younger Brother Version Of  “Ray William Johnson”
omg .....these teenagers are so GORGEOUS,I AM SPEECHLESS, sipmly two beauties
They aren't "HER kids".  Biology is the tiniest part of being a parent.
In my opinion, the egg donor is not the mother.  She didn't put the work into those two fantastic kids.  She did something truly wonderful by donating her eggs, but she isn't the mom.
“What do you know about her kids? Sunday, they are MY kids” not nice.
Not fair on the adoptee mom..BUT some one got lucky all of a sudden got 2 all grownup children for free.
Sweet story.  Makes me wish I had donated my eggs.    They would’ve been able to find each other through DNA websites, eventually.
They are not her children.  By saying that you are taking away from the lady that raised them.  Their biological mother.  Not her children.  The lady that raised them is their mother.  Having a baby does not make you a mother.  It takes a lot more than that.  The fact that the lady could not have children.  She does not need that rubbed in her face.  Be a bit gentle with your words.
These siblings are not alike. The father genetic inheritance is also strong.💪
beautiful family is so important children are our greatest gifts from God ❤
Children are meant to be raised with love and spent time with Biology is nothing.
She should've looked at the child and exclaimed "Eggy?" Hilarious 🤣🤣🤣
Very good looking kids who turned out to be wonderful people. Such a happy discovery for all
This came on my suggested videos after watching the Tyler from Love Is Blind interview about the kids he abandoned! 😩
It shouldnt be private because kids can hook up so it should be open and traceble to prevent inceessssss
Quick question..isit incest if these kids met each other and fell in love not knowing their biological mother/father are the same person?
WARNING: DEATH BY CANCER. There are SEVERE AND FATAL RISKS when donating your eggs! Anyone considering this MUST look further into it. LOOK UP THE STORY OF Jessica Wing, and there are countless other stories that ended in death exactly like Jessica's did at only 39 years old. These stories are sooo sad, & it's a result of the lack of research that has been done of the long term effects on women's health after donating their eggs. PLEASE for the sake of your own life, reconsider this option & warn your loved ones!
If you donate your eggs or sperm you don’t have the right to ever see them again.  That’s disgusting to even give away your eggs in the first place.
This feels like an ex wanting to be part of the family or something.  Like a high school fling that you knew long before your even had kids, just wants to join the party.  Like maybe they are a super interesting person but that doesn't mean they should be invited into the family.
I don't understand why egg and sperm donors do this. You DONATED...if you wanted children MAKE them yourselves. Why go mess in peoples lives after decades? It's incredibly selfish.
Can someone please explain who Sunday is in all this story?
But why not adopt since this is not your child biologically this is weird
Probably so that Sunday's husband (the father of the twins) could still pass his genes down.
The only way to become a parent is to raise children  and be a part of their childhood
stories like this …. goodness exists … the world is a beautiful place too… dont forget
The sad part is children need their original Father and Mother…. I get people want children and try to shortcut the situation, but it’s really cruel to the children….. and to prove my point the children wanted to know their biological parents… sad part is they miss their dad every Father’s Day, and every day of their life 😢
It didn’t sound sincere. I hope children could understand it too.
Nice, but! They are not here kind’s even though she is the biological mother. Their mother, who seams really super sweet, must be rock solid, strong and brave to let her in to be a part of here family’s life. Just think about how lucky those kids were to grow up in such an safe environment. It’s wrong to talk about them as “here children” booth from the news/media and from the egg doner. Because that’s what she is. The donor. Fantastic! She donated eggs to finance here studies ant the mother “baked the cakes” and gave birth to her children. Of course they all, booth here and here children benefits from knowing here and having here in their life. Great people. The mother, here children and the egg donor! 😃👍
I think I we should always know who our parents are, good or not.
She put her career first and gave her eggs away. Not very smart. But those kids are here and they look well raised.
I kind of feel like the personality of the egg donor who doesn't have any children of her own is going to over power the mother who birthed and raised the two children. I feel like the donor is going to cause a lot of unneeded heart break and drama for this family and that she has overstepped. She basically got two kids "made" and "raised" for her for free, now she wants to come in, push the real mother aside and reap the rewards. I am an adoptive mother, and I under stand the real mother's kindness and wanting to share with the egg donor. I understand the amazing genetics, etc. I have an open adoption with both my dear birth parents. But none of them disrespect or try to over power or step on me and try to make this big deal. But maybe the donor "can't" have children of her own now, and now she WILL definitely want to be mother again, and I would understand, as 7% of couples are infertile. So now is the sperm donor going to come by and want to be an over powering father now too? Hopefully, it all just makes a big happy family, and the real mother who birthed and raised these kids, and her kids continue to have a solid loving relationship.
I donated eggs to a chwrity; a whole crate of them. Rather than thanking me, they complained some of them were rotten.
My friend at 16 was approached by church to possibly donate her eggs to the pastor wife, the girl got pregnant before 18 by boyfriend, she agree to let them adopt, she had twins unknowingly,  cause during pregnancy she was a runaway, they told her the baby died at birth, 36 years later some bald headed guy was crying looking at her and a lady next to him and she found out she was a mother to faternal twins, they found her on face book and chase her down at her job,  be careful with this donor stuff
Imagine how chickens feel, losing their eggs & never meeting their chicks.
This is why I would never adopt or use a donor eggs. If she is the MOM she should do the work of raising them kids.
I would appreciate an update on the 'new family' situation.  The intentions of the donor lady seemed not to be 100% fair, her behaviour a little concerning, to say a little.
I’m happy for them but there’s something very uncomfortable about this seemingly feel-good story. Unless it was explained badly, it sounds like she used the very bad news of possibly having ovarian cancer in their family to get to them? I’m glad it worked out at least. But Amy seems to have a blurry sense of boundaries calling them “her kids”. She didn’t carry/birth them, or raise them.
Egg and sperm donation should be illegal. Imagine if a donor later has their own child, and then those kids end up falling in love and having a child together that's incest and could lead to genetic issues. If someone can't have a baby or is single, they shouldn't resort to this. It's not necessary to have kids to live a fulfilling life. Let's not make others lives difficult for our own desires.
Disgusting for those kids to not really belong to their real mom.. a very sick world. There are many many orphans who need a home...
I dont know how i would feel if i was the mother who raised them..robbed maybe?
Hmm I feel conflicted! Infertility can be such a struggle and now 20 y years later the donor turns up and is like these are my kids 😢
This makes me think about how we should be having kids. Oh how we humans complicate things!
Bro that was beautiful to watch...but that girl is gorgeous, ngl.
They are NOT your kids! You are NOT their Mother. You are the DONOR, how arrogant of you!
A weird experiment. We are “just” not biologically related, which is the the real family. All parents here should hand their heads in shame for giving away or accepting the kids.
Genetic testing takes care of that. 23 and me ancestry accurate you can find possible relatives easily
The lady   lawyer  probably has a high net worth. The kids would likely inherit a lot of assets/money. Which isnt a bad thing.
this is so disgusting that the father is not even mentioned....
Some ppl just have the parent gene and some don't. She has it. Sidebar i need info on dad.
Children born from other methods than the natural  always always want to know who their parents are.
Ok, but its not fair for the mom that raised them. Now the real mom wants to just come in their life and be their mom.
A part of me feels like it was an appointed time type of matter when it comes to the meet and greet and a part of me is like why would she say “those are my kids”….. I’m torn between whether I can really accept this as a good thing or we something else. They all seem very happy, loving and genuine…. We all need people, family or those who feel like it so she’s not wrong for seeking that out but this is just I don’t even know….perplexing.
It's not donating when you have to pay to use the eggs not free.... and how can you sign something or make something to not disclose anything especially doing something like this....
All she had to do was 23 and me DNA test. I'm sure the kids eventually would have done one.
Yeah we can tell who had twins and who had none. 😂
Dont give your dna away - these are YOUR children. Dont abandon them ! This is immoral to do !
2:49 if you ever see a dude this handsome, hes probably an ivf baby
She is the biological donor, not the mother, maybe godmother but no more than that. She gave her dna, so everything that comes with it, but she didn’t gave them an education, love or a point of view on the world.
.....so what really matters in the end again?  Career?  Money?
I like that this turned into a happy ending, but the dark side of this can really be actually kind of sad. There’s a reason why you don’t ever meet your biological mother or there is a reason why there are these disclosures paperwork that is signed so that you do not have contact with the children and it’s because you gave up all of those rights when you gave up your egg. Mother is gonna have the same experience as them personally would kind of get a little jealous if the biological mother came into the equation and my kids started to gain an attachment and you know you are my kids you know I’m just saying if you’re not the right space frame of mine This type of scenario, it is not forever. I would be a little offended if the biological mother wanted to be present all of a sudden, but she already gave me this gift  years and years and years ago. I would be like bro now you wanna come and disrupt the balance of what I have going on I’m their mother.
An empty little life huh kinda like it wasn't worth going career over being a mom
So I guess it says they wanted to find her too but saying those are my kids… mhmm
Is she actually different than a man who fathered a child at a drunken party many years ago who didn’t find out until later?
The big reason governments are getting rid of permanent donor anonymity is because donor conceived people and their children are having serious health problems and even dying from not having accurate family health histories.  It’s also surprisingly common for donor conceived people to live in the sane areas and go to high school and college with each other, which is a huge incest risk.  Also, love isn’t a finite thing going for family members. If I had twice as many aunts I wouldn’t love them all 50% less.
What about father😮 i mean The child will inherit genetic information from both the egg donor and the sperm donor 😢😢 no one is talking about the father
I think having two moms is better than having just one, but if they're both good like in this video
I agree she’s intrusive. She used her knowledge of law, and social media to pry and manipulate. She will be intrusive and overbearing 100%. They are NOT her children. She just wanted $$$$$$$ for her eggs.
...and the son from 2:20-2:45, "like" "like" "like" "we like" "we were like" "we like looked her up" this young man needs to learn to stop overusing the word like
I can relate, my sister looks similar to Rebecca from vampire origins, so similar that they look like sisters but different race and hair color.
I have three DNA grand children who were brought up knowing my son and daughter in law who gave fertilised eggs to another couple. My other two grandchildren were carried by their natural parents. Thus I have two lots of grandchildren fertilised at the same time but some were up to and over 10 years apart in age. All still in loving contact. My DNA grandchildren are dubbed the little people and sometimes come to stay with their elder siblings.
4:00 , I am also alone not married. You seem like an amazing person, would be nice to meet you
Hmm. If i was that family I would be really careful here. The donor seems manipulative, and quite possessive of the children, and it looks like she love bombed the whole family to get into their lives. Narcissistic people feed off others, and the mother seems like the gentle, sensitive, and vulnerable type of person who are easily manipulated by narcissists.  So many red flags here.
This is such a beautiful story, thank you. I can tell egg mom loved them before she even knew them. I can tell mom loved and raised them well. 👏
most of my friends wh were adopted have no deisre to meet the bio parents.  I think it's hurtful to the adoptive parents.  But, this group seems to have worked it out. As they say though, blood is thicker than water, the kids will always favor the donor over the one who wanted them and birthed them and took care of them.
It’s a nice story but I’m not sure what to make of her wanting to go looking for a relationship after donating.
There not her kids. But I hope it works out and they can be friends.
did she sell an egg or did she donate her egg?
Bro, I thought he was the kid from Ginny and Georgia
What I don't get is how can you not find a woman in your family to donate related dna?
I have a feeling she decided not to have a child of her own and now she regrets.
Wow. Mom died of ovarian cancer and Amy underwent treatment that no doubt affects her ovaries…hopefully she doesn’t get cancer
That’s why guys a lot of ppl regret that they didn’t make some babies when they are old
 @HelenWA  You might be Helen but you should have been named Karen Lol. Wanting to meet your biological children is not creepy.
Wallahi I knew her story the moment she spoke. Lesson to anyone who can have kids and yet elects not have them.
Amy is smart AF donating her eggs in retrospect. Given that she lost her parents and had no other kids of her own, connecting with her biological eggs must've meant the world to her.
Don't know what the ethnicity of the bio mom but those  2 kids really look like her.......................
this might be out of context but both look like models
The area they lived in reminded me of the recent tv show on Netflix.  " The Man With 1000 Kids"   If I remember right, he donated a lot in Bellevue.  Or may be it was anotherr documentary but, It is an interesting coincidence in the same town.  I wonder if this is such a common thing in Seattlee. This lady should search how many kids she really has.
Yuppie learns the magic of not being a power woman and that kids, even ones she didn't raise, are what matters.  Poor kids, yuppies on both sides.
This comment section weird as hell lol, assuming a whole lot for people they don't personally know
Ce înseamnă astea ce este nu e normal Dumnezeu ne pedepsește
Don't know about son but daughter is exactly look like her  No DNA check needed
Her son is stunning, wow! Amazing genes, although it’s always hard for the normal looking sibling if the other one is a straight up model😅
Not two mothers, only one, the other is the donor and not a mother.
Well, i'm not gonna wait not even 1 more year, let that be clear.
i would not whant this to happend neverless she visiting my house or becoming part of my fam no thanks
I wonder why the donor never have babies she raised 😞?
But what if these dudes and girls got married without knowing they’re actually siblings, wth
I don't think it was a good idea because no one knows what sort of emotional or legal complication may arise from the biological mother and the children uncovering their identities to the other and establishing contacts with each other.  Better to just live in anonymity and pretend that other side doesn't exist.
Wow! Believe me what I'm saying: This Karen isn't a Karen....
I’m actually kind of conflicted by this. But i can see all 3 sides
If anyone can please answer. Does the child gets mother's way of living from egg? What similar things have anyone known if it goes to child from egg and is the mix character of mother who carry another women's egg carrying into child? Just asking.
The egg donor need to just stay away. She had done her part. She only came back because she is not married and don't have children of her own'. At least so she said. Please, let this kids and their mum be.
It happened... some good things some not so good things but what can you do?
is that the dude THAT YAPS over all the tiktok premade clips LMFAOO???
awesome story.  But "Sunday" is a terrible name to give someone.
It would show on the genetic family tree services. So exciting
Child is separate organism it has everything separate. Its not a part of women how pro-choisers like to preach. Not a lot of stuff goes through, the blood doesnt miiix.
@Corte.   I appreciate your kind reply. It makes very much sense. Do you think the psychology, acting, behavior, glucome, diabetes, sugar, any other and willing nature follows from blood to generations?
This is a strong defence of unborn children.  She gave away an EGG, not even an embryo.  And look how investigated she was.  😊
What's the boys name he looks so familiar but i can't get his name in my mind
Dam how does it take 20 years to donate an egg.
This is weird as hell. Its basically her kids being raised by some random woman if you think about it. Just adopt kids, its better for the world
They were her eggs.  They needed sperm and a Uterus to grow. If i bake a cake with eggs borrowed from a neighbor can she claim she's the baker ?  No because she was only the egg donor.  There is a lot involved for the donor and they usually get paid a good amount. The Donor never had children of her own and didn't raise any. She is not what i would call a mother. If everyone involved is Happy then i am happy for them.
Ouch.... I guess the future of the modern woman is played out by the unfortunate current state of the donor woman huh.
"Sunday those are my kids"  ...hum🤔🤔🤔 scary movy out there😢😢😢
Is it kinda strange that the brother is better looking than his sister?  I mean no disrespect, it was just an obvious observation.
Ummmmmm no. You made that choice and you don’t get to call the shots now
My daughter is talking about egg donation but says afterwards shes done, the children they create arnt hers,
But one who raised is greater than egg donor…it’s like egg donor dads so hope the kids don’t forget that
There's a family that for generations (4 that um aware of) that trades their kids/ allow others members of the family to raise. I guess not so weird after all
Comment section does not pass the vibe check. Seems like a lot  of  negative judgmental folks up there in Seattle looking for something to be angry self-centered & butthurt about.
I donated my eggs and think about this all the time haha
When I watched this and listened to James telling his story, I remembered a phrase that was popular at the onset of the pandemic: "All alone together." James will never see this, but he perfectly represents it. Nine million people, and you can be alone in a crowded room. Tragic, isn't it? Everyone so deeply suspicious of each other, skeptical of each other, contemptuous of each other almost automatically, because you can't know which smiling face wants to hug you, and which wants to put a knife in your back. You can't know--not quickly, anyway--which people offer you a hand up, and which just want to reach out to shove you further down.   Not a globe hopper and I don't see myself crossing an ocean, but should it happen fate permits me to stumble onto this guy, I'm going to say hello, I'm going to shake his hand, and let him know that there are many millions of people who understand what it's like to have nobody. I'm not there anymore, but I was, and it hurt every single day. God bless you, James.
A lack of attachment during childhood can really screw someone up, especially during adulthood.
I am literally this guy. I feel like no one has done less with more than I have. No money no kids no friends no home. I'm 60 and I'm burdened with the regret of all the missed opportunities and knowing time is running out. Physically I now take good care of myself and have my interests but I still can't find what value I bring to the world. To James I say, your honesty, demeanor and style are beautiful, keep fighting.
I know exactly how this man feels! I turned 65 years old today and not one person, absolutely none, wished me a Happy Birthday. No family, no friends, no job, poor as a mouse, nothing to be proud of. Only memories of better times, but that makes life even harder. Every day I wake up I ask God why? Why am I still here? Sometimes I think I can't go on living like this, not for just 1 more day. I'm so tired of all the loss, the hurt, the pain, the fighting against windmills, the carrying on - what for? James, I feel you. You are not alone!
Please tell James that he just made a friend in Canada and I'm sending him a hug from the Rocky Mountains. It's never too late to connect with other people, even with a quick smile. Bless you Chris, for making the world a bit smaller and helping us notice each other.
James has far more self-awareness than most people, and an understanding of the real effects of childhood trauma. For what it’s worth, James, that awareness is in itself an achievement the vast majority never attain.
Makes me wonder how many more James are walking around.I hope he finds and can achieve what he needs to feel happy and successful.
"My mother was a piece of ice".. what a delightfully eloquent way of putting it
I like him. I'd be his friend in a heartbeat. Take care, James. A lot of folks are on your side.
Well you are no more a nobody, James. You are one of the few that the whole world will see and care about.
This guy wanted to talk and open up so much!   Bless him
"All the lonely people, where do they all come from" I am one of them. One of millions.
I met a homeless man in America which must have been in similar circumstances. He asked me for  change which I gladly gave him but then he ask “can I hug you”. I was stunned and said of course and he hugged me and just held onto me. I knew, I could tell, he hadn’t been      hugged in years, maybe decades. It was a terribly cold, windy evening and he was an elderly man. I hope he made it somewhere warm, I hope he is still alive.
Sometimes those who've been hurt terribly in life, are the most honest, raw, genuine, kind & caring people.  x
I had an argument with my father about ten years ago. He doesn't drink, I do and everything else with it. I was living at home, came back from the pub and he was in the kitchen waiting for me, and boy did he leave me have it. Told me exactly what he thought about how I carried myself, how I made my money at the time, how I was wasting my life etc. My mother was there, scared that it would go to blows. But I let him speak, listened to what he had to say, accepted some of it, countered some of it but overall told him not to doubt me, that I'd get there in spite of being far from perfect. He cried and hugged me. I'm since sober, back in legit work, a homeowner, etc.  I told that story to a friend of mine one night and he didn't cry but went quiet and said he never had any moment of love and care like I had that night, even my father giving me a bollocking was out of care, and the hug was a genuine moment between father and son. He said his dad walked out when he was 8 and the rest of his childhood was written off.  I don't have any kids, but for anyone reading this who does - remember they need your care, your interest and your respect.
Holy crap………what a man. He made no excuses. Took credit for his life.
" I wish she was my mother " 😢😢 We can't imagine the hole in his heart since childhood
Behind every broken man and woman, there is a family that messed something up.
I often see people as the child they once were—not out of condescension, but to recognize the innocence, wonder, and vulnerability within them. Beneath the layers of experience and time, that part still exists. Seeing people this way makes the world softer and allows for greater understanding and empathy
Thank you for this really lovely comment. “All alone together” (or “together alone”) is something that inspired me to start this project in the first place. I would also recommend the book “Bowling Alone”. Over the decades communities have become much more atomised and it is unfortunate that we can be quite suspicious of our fellow human. The smartphone has made things much worse. Loneliness is everywhere, and many of us are living lives of quiet desperation.
 @modelstrangers  I listened to a song about this a few months ago, 'Old One' by Finnegan Tui: "I think we're fading Old One. Lost indoors."
Idk, honestly I've had massive social anxiety (couldn't buy bread at the bakery) - and since I journaled, meditated and reframed one by one my insanely limiting beliefs, I now feel like - these people who "want to put a knife in your back" barely even exist.  I realised that I was just putting all my attention into confirming that the world was a dangerous place for years... Nowadays, I'm just talking to random people and discovering such amazing people, like James, people I could have projected so many things on if I hadn't given him a chance to exist in my life instead of existing in my mind.  Well... What I mean is that I wish this beautiful soul and everyone holding these self-beliefs could find a way to feel that he belongs, that he's being loved, that he matters - and that no one is judging him for what he hasn't done. (Or at least that he could see ALL these comments!)  We love you, James. 🫶
that is why i think my nation has one of the best societies. it removes every con of the society to me everywhere I go I miss kind openhearted people. (I'm from Azerbaijan) its because of hard times I think which made people stand together, when there was nothing there were we, everyone, the people to trust and emotions to live for
I just saw Simon Sinek's clip which fits pretty well when it comes to todays issues with friendships: "We All Need Someone To Believe In Us | Simon Sinek"
Man, we need his contacts. With your following, you could have helped him publish his plays, and who knows, maybe jis life could turn around before it's too late!
'I will restore unto you the years which the locusts have devoured.. ' 'come to me all you that are weary and burdened and I will give you rest, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light...' ❤
❤​ @firecarrier1  ✝️Lord, please send James someone to share Jesus with James!! 🙏🏼
This guys self awareness and reflection of self is actually a great SUCCESS.   Even accepting all this and being such a great communicator is a success. Being vulnerable truthful and aware of one’s weaknesses and self is a success.   To me.   James is a success.   ❤
Paul - you are a true humanitarian with a gift for the art of words. God Bless you Sir. And I too would love to be your friend. ❤
Damn, reading this made me realize so much more about myself. Thank you.
it's always that feeling when you're neglected at early life and wouldn't even realize that other parents would treat their kids nicely
 @lucutes2936  The neglect I endured may have given me deep trauma and made me neurotic, but thanks to the power of denial, I'm great!
yeah, its ultimately true, but I've found over the years I've come to have pretty accurate intuitions about people based on eyes, posture and conversation. A lot of it is right there on the surface if you've the eyes to see it. Animals seem to understand human body language than most city-dwellers these days
@rumination2399  I have the same, but sometimes I see it as a curse to know people.
 @modelstrangers  I think that some of the people this touches will be a lot like James. That's true of me, anyway. About twenty years ago, I seemed to be on the cusp of being something. Now I'm penniless and, although I've met some amazing and beautiful people and got some amazing stories, I sadly can't eat them or take them out of the cashpoint. And I think there's an absolute army of us.   In the film 'Wings of Desire,' angels go about modern day Berlin, listening to people's inner thoughts. People in that army would either be crying, or just letting out a sigh that lasted forever.
He is absolutely correct, but there is time to repair and take steps to improve I hope for our daughter, granddaughter....
All these thoughts floating around hold us back from sparking a conversation with a stranger. As you mentioned, there's no certainty about who we might come across, even though it worths risking getting hurt
 @caveman1981ad  Spoken like someone who has been burned by people often. I'm sorry that happened to you.
The problem is, nobody wants to find out. Everybody is scared, or we're just always told never approach strangers, so nobody does. Additionally, some movements in the past have further made people less likely to approach others, because the fear of offending someone has gotten so bad you can't even spark conversations without worry even when you have no ill intent or even saying anything that controversial. I think the issue is nobody says hello to each other anymore. Nobody wants anything to do with others, yet we long for friends and connections, yet we seem to feel nowadays the only way to make them is online, and not in person unless you're in school or at work maybe with your colleagues. But once that's gone, people seriously struggle finding new connections. That is a problem.
If he were my neighbour he would not be so alone, I'd make sure of that. Crowds of people who all have someone else with them can be the loneliest of places.
He's a truly beautiful human being. I'd be honored to know him.
You dont need covid to feel that way. I felt alone in the busiest streets of London when I first visited there, being a student in the UK, back in 1999. It was crazy to me, because as I felt it inside me, i was asking my 20 year old self, how is it possible to feel alone, in between so many people?
Suicidal Tendencies 'Alone' is an awesome song about this topic. When those formative years are fucked up (Atheist 'The Formative Years' is an awesome song about that), you spend the rest of your life trying to not only fix it but come to terms with it basically having no time to focus on acquiring / establishing the things in life that most people have. By the time you realize this, life has already passed you by. Just my .02
I feel like trust has become a currency that the more you lust it, and the more you fear it, the less you have
9 Million People. I think that's one of the issues. There are so many people now in the world that no one is considered special and everyone is expendable. When you don't know the other people, then you don't care about them or what happens to them. I remember reading somewhere that if someone pulls in front of another driver, the other driver will most likely shake a fist and curse at the offending driver. But, if the other driver is someone they know, they'll most likely calm down, smile and gesture for them to go ahead. I have also found that people are so engrossed in (and addicted to) their electronics, that they have lost the ability and skill involved in holding conversations with and being courteous to other people. At this point, they aren't even interested in interreacting with other people. I'm in my 60's and I really enjoy spending time with my 92 year old friend. It is so pleasant to have a conversation with someone who still knows how to. It's becoming a lost art.
Beatifull words, Amazings Thougths,  there're so many peoples in this situation im hole world, dear James, perhaps it sounds strange for you but so far of London there's a olace in Argentina called Resistencia,  I can assure that yoy have a good friend there, ME ,God bless you,  a big HUG for you , which is a regular or usual remark that we have when we love someone ❤❤❤
as a fellow paul who also can't shut up sometimes.. I dunno how to feel about your username and this clearly personal attack XD
 @mandasity  we can be angry about the username, or angrier that it's so honest, really
Sad thing is rejection and distance can happen during all stages of life. But when it's ingrained at such a young age, it causes so many developmental issues - sometimes we're able to find it elsewhere, sometimes it's like James experience where he did see it other families and friends yet still could never quite compute how to seek that out for himself. He is an eloquently spoken man, surely a kind heart, it really doesn't make sense that our society is set up to punish people unless you won the vagina lottery in terms of education and profession (we just cast people aside and have no issue with watching them fade away, calling them unfortunates, when that really is just a soft way of being callous to people).
It is what it is, no body is perfect, you grow out of it and make the best for yourself.
it WILL screw you up. Its a ''if''. Secondly a child (or adult) not only needs attachment but needs HEALTHY attachment. I'm almost 34 now and it took me a decade to figure this out. Now i learned i have CPTSS, a avoidance personality disorder and a disorganized attachment style. Or its anxious or avoidant attachment style i dunno but it does not matter. Without healthy connection between you and at least one person in your childhood. Without healthy connection between you and you enviroment. Without that you can not be a healthy human and you will feel bad. And if you live this way long enough there will be nothing left of you except a empty shell.  I think this is perhaps proof that how you relate to someone else, and how you relate to the world itself, is part of what it means to be human. If the attachment between you and your parents and enviroment is unhealthy, it means its unsafe. And if its unsafe, that means you are and feel unsafe. And if you feel unsafe, all other things in life become irrelevant to you because having a sens of safety is perhaps the biggest basic need you need besides food/water/shelter.  And the sad thing is that no psychologist can fix this for you. You can't buy a healthy mother or a caring friend.
 @pageup213 yes..  I relate to that 😢 I wish I could have children, I have so much love to give. I want to give them the childhood I never had. I feel like that would help me. But I don’t think I ever will be able to. It hurts so much sometimes. 💔
 @MomoMomoyan  That’s not really how it works. When a child is neglected or abused, it affects the development of their nervous system. It literally damages key parts of the brain  and limits their growth, and you can’t really fix that or grow out of it. Sure, healing is possible, but often only with extensive therapy. Therapy that is often unaffordable for people who, like the gentleman shown here, have struggled to earn a living because of the ongoing effects of childhood trauma.
I'm able to relate to this a lot. I'm trying to make more effort to be less estranged from family. I really have a problem with trust. Because of past events, and that is hindering me and keeping me stuck. But I have run into so many problems over time it really does feel like when I let down my guard and trust others at their word, that's when things go bad for me. Not sure what to do. I have been praying again lately. I think getting a better relationship with God really is going to be the solution, for me.
True words. Also harsh treatment of a child causes the same screw up
" Good morning monster" Is an excellent book, 5 cases of adults finding healing from some of the worst cases of child neglect and abuse. Just a beautiful book.
 @MomoMomoyan  YouTube keeps deleting my reply, I have no idea why it seems innocent enough. I’m just gonna post this as a test to see whether it’s the words I write or me personally!
 @MomoMomoyan . Just as a summary, I am 67 and just wanted to write that it is a very long very hard road and there are many people along the way that don’t make it. There, I hope YouTube censorship doesn’t find this offensive!
 @gregorymoats4007  oh dear, YouTube seems to keep deleting my response to your comment as well! I’m beginning to think I am persona non grata. I will try again. Me too, only with hindsight at 67 years of age can I see that all that chasing women in my youth, yes healthy young man like others, but mostly a quest for love that I never had as a child and unfortunately sex is the nearest I got to it. (like you’re looking for honey, but all you find is. Aspartame!)
Or toxic relationship, where one moment you are told you are the greatest mistake in your parent's life, the other you are loved. That state of confusion rips you apart inside; it is sour, soft, raw, and painful, but eventually, you grow to take care of yourself.   It is a sad yet beautiful piece of video. I liked the glimpse into the human condition.
@yaniswashington8828 “weak” I pray that you are never in a situation where you have to find out how strong you really are. There is a difference between vulnerability to something, and weakness.
 @kamilwezka  “ one moment you are told you are the greatest mistake in your parents life, the other you are loved.” Ouch, that has to be even more confusing than my experience of consistently not wanted, at least I knew where I stood! Although in hindsight, when I was a small boy and I assumed my parents were mine, et cetera, it was confusing to me the way they treated me in particular The very notable difference between me and my two siblings. At Sunday school I was taught from the Bible the phrase. “ and what father would give his son a stone instead of a piece of bread?” what I couldn’t understand is why I was given a stone and my siblings bread. As I wrote elsewhere, I’m now 67 and it’s taken far too many decades to figure it all out and many people in the similar situation haven’t made it.
 @DigitalDiamonds24  then I suspect you could do worse than read the comments here to give you some indication on how to come to terms with it and hopefully have a more fulfilling life unlike the chap in the video. Good luck!
 @DigitalDiamonds24  PS personally I have found CBT (cognitive behavioural therapy) to be of great use what you need is to find a very simple booklet explaining the outline of it to begin with it should help.
My grandpa is a broken human being and was an orphan. He projects so many insecurities on anyone and everyone around him.
100% right. I am living proof. I am working on it though. trying to do better
Care/attachment, play and seeking vs fear/panic/rage and grief are the only emotions a child has from birth to age 3 or 5. The predominant emotions it receives during this period of time control the release of dopamine/serotonin vs cortisol. Theses chemicals “wash” the child’s brain, imprinting them for life. If the proper care is not provided it can result in permanent damage to the child’s brain to where the adult cannot property emotionally regulate.  Allowing your child to cry itself to sleep, neglecting the child, abuse or separation (daycare), will all facilitate a negative consequence.
@yaniswashington8828 That’s quite a callous response. While it’s true that some people are more susceptible to being traumatised than others, it’s nothing to do with being “weak”.  In fact, it takes incredible strength to survive childhood abuse.
Exactly, it can start from visual traits when really young, continuing to you being less social and a little more weird/closed compared to others, then it continues to you being asocial or at least having an extreme hard time socializing, not liking groups/not fitting in any, yet feeling atrocious when alone. People, children, parents dont understand anything tbh
One of the most detrimental things to be deprived of. Connection is as necessary to the mind as water is to the rest of the body
@yaniswashington8828 Completely wrong. Complex PTSD is a real psychological condition that has nothing to do with being "weak."
This is true Mary Ainsworth the strange situation, look up the study. A lack of atttachment at key ages means we can’t attach to others in adulthood
Attachment  Theory confirms this. He is most probably a Fearful Avoidant.
I’m still working on it - what emotional responses you have first , are imprinted in every cell.
 @krakatoaskywalker children always blame themselves if they don’t get love or feel loved and that just reflects out as a self full filling prophecy chasing love but not believing it’s real.
 @andrewmurray3139 sometimes different words can be received better - maybe spirit working through you for all the sensitives. 😊
 @MomoMomoyan  if you lost a limb, do you "grow out" a new one? Oh, but that's very different - what exactly makes you so sure of it? What if I told you that it works in the same way?
Ya and studies have shown that kids who are unable to make friends between the age of 2 and 4 end up with life long problems, that for most, never go away.
@ to which I would add, only commenting from my personal experience, that not only did it take all my strength it took years if not decades of intermittent work as more information became available to me. This is no joke, it is long, hard and painful to overcome childhood issues.
@louiseann_venusandneptune thank you for your comment, however I’m finding it difficult to understand the point you are making. Yes different words may be received better but then again different words often have a different meaning unless the two words are so similar in meaning they are, as the saying goes, a difference without distinction. Maybe you would care to elaborate for me? They may certainly be a spirit working through me, however, I have reason to believe there is a dark spirit on my tail. I guess I’ll only find out after I leave this world. As for spirit may be helping me, in the Christian faith we all seem to have guardian angels. I hope mine is doing all you can again I guess I will only find things out once I reach the other side.
It did for me also. I used to be shocked that my friends mothers were so nice and friendly to them.. it destroys your soul...
I'm the perfect example, Had an abusive dad, never got love despite food. Was  a horrible childhood, I cant even connect emotionally to anyone, as I dont know what an emotion is. I just leave when my dad yells at me. Never felt love, this horrible childhood is affecting my adulthodd.
Life runs on collective illusions. A person with a lack of attachment is observing life raw. Other people keep one in illusions so as to keep the attention deflected from raw painful truths of life. If one doesn't accept the raw life, that person would cling to connection, thus screwed. The one who has accepted and molded the self through much work to be compatible with the  raw life remains unattached, thus neutral.
@ WOW, That's well wrote. Most of the people are in relationship are afraid to face the raw life, they were in the illusion that they got a person to cope their struggles.
Current  situation. Except I seemed to have learned how to attach how to achieve and believed i was loving but one day it crumbled and turns out I know how to be nice, and I don't like to hurt people. But I don't know how to care and desire to be part of this Life experience anymore. I used to get a thrill out of adventure,  at least, and not even that can motivate me anymore. I wonder how people who feel like me, so awful, just keep going. And for how long must I keep going? And why? Because some people think they love me and "want me here" why? James expressed what many hearts ache with I think. It's painful to KNOW your potential, especially to have been in it for a time, and then lose it and be unable to step Into it or back I to it. Everything has lost its meaning so how can I form bonds and relationships with other humans who do find meaning in their lives and things?
seems like almost everyone working for the public sector have had a lack of attachment in the west.
Thats why you have to tell your kids that you love them even if it's obvious..
i did the same thing as him, didnt think i  could have any friends , always saw them as temporary and that they would leave me and abandon me so why even bother?  just like my mother and father did when i was 13, left me in an apartment without food and electricity and moved away from me, saying theyd be back this weekend. that never happened. so i never bothered trying to keep any friends or make any new ones. now im 32 wishing i would have but im trying now and i attended some classes  and going to get into volunteering
Deep concept. Practically most of parents don’t realize this and have given devices to cater this need where kids get into addiction.
At 43 I’m learning this. I had no attachment till 28 then after 8 years separating I learned real fast about how that can be an issue.
Yeah this. Rejection hurts, sure, but it's psychologically incomparable to not forming secure attachments as kids. It's like being emotionally crippled for the rest of your life.
 @redbirddeerjazz  I don't think this is true. If anything, it makes you more sensitive to your surroundings ("hypervigilant"), it makes your nervous system more sensitive. I think it is no coincidence that the most troubled individuals are usually the most sensitive and at times euphoric. I most certainly have been.
​@yaniswashington8828 It has nothing to do with strength or weakness.  We're all living organisms with brains and nervous systems that react to our environment.  Our bodies learn to react a certain way to the environment based on the things we experience, especially trauma.   Complex ptsd is a very real thing that shapes who we are as adults.  You have a very outdated view of how the human body works.
 @MomoMomoyan you don't grow out of it, you heal, if blessed the right conditions. That was me. But I can see v clearly some people don't get that grace.
My emotional neglect by various caregivers has caused attachment problems for me in my adult hood. I’d like to e in a relationship however I’m scared, vulnerable, can’t be bothered or want to go to the effort of maintaining it , sometimes I long for a relationship or closeness with others however I’m terrified of being hurt emotionally. I went through emotional abuse for a number of years. I vowed to myself to never be in a relationship when I came away from that. I’ve been this way for 7 years now. I know I can receive help. I just potter on through and enjoy everyday. ❤
 @TheDavveponken  I agree and I don’t see how that contradicts anything I wrote.  Trauma makes your nervous system more sensitive by causing certain brain structures to be bigger or more active than they otherwise would have been. The amygdala for example is the part of the brain that governs the fear response, and trauma causes this to grow bigger, causing, as you say, hypervigilance.
 @violetw2653  everything is temporary but God. It’s sad some of us don’t live the lives we envisioned but…all of it is temporary. I can’t wait for heaven
I can attest to that. Ripped away from my birth parents around 2-3 years old. DK why, didn't then either. Old enough to have felt genuine parental love/caring, yet not old enough to understand why it was torn away to never see them again. I can feel lonely in the company of my own friends and family...
On the other hand, too much can also cause problems like lack of independence and self confidence, i feel that.
Yeah... My mom was mercurial. On one hand, I'm a Mama's boy. We would snuggle when I was young, and it was solid bonding, but, at the same time, she could flip like a switch. My dad worked as a bus driver and his shifts were noon to midnight for a lot of my childhood. Mom would handle most of the day to day disciplinarian roles. She was a screamer, and a hitter. A call home from the principal's office meant I get it the moment I walked in the door, then I'd pray dad didn't find out the following morning before school, or on Saturday. But they talked about me. I put a lot of stress on my parent's marriage from 4-12, when they got divorced. But when my dad's shifts changed before they split, I would get the worst of it from him. But my mom gave me a bloody nose once when I was about 8.   Eventually, my mom ended up getting electro shock treatment in order to get off certain medications (this is what my aunt told me one day when I was in college). When I moved up north to be with her afterwards, she was this super docile woman, very chill. Like a declawed cat. Of course, I had repressed a lot of resentment for my parents that all came flooding back when I was living with her at this stage. And I would dredge up the past and she would cry a lot... She wasn't the same person and here I was fighting her like that version of herself still existed.   I walked out of her apartment in February 2017, and she moved. I regret this every day. I don't know where she is or if she's alive.
I see it more as depth in character. There is a more profound meaning to destitution and loneliness, compared to the cliche life that Hollywood tells you, you should aspire for. I can relate to James. With the only difference being I am able to reconcile with myself and be content in my times of loneliness. And even if I can turn back time, I would not trade my times of solitude for anything else in this world.
I agree. It only takes a parent to connect with a child 30% of the time for the child to become healthily attached and go on to feel a belonging and connection to the world around them; to think a parent only needed to do bare minimum to foster love and connection yet chooses to instead emotionally malnourish their own flesh and blood through emotional coldness and neglect, stunting them and causing a lifetime of pain and disconnection. Not all parents did their best, some did their worst, but I feel for all involved as for a parent to be so hard hearted towards their young means that someone that they emotionally relied on as a child failed them and thus intergenerational trauma is birthed and grows. My heart is with all my brothers and sisters who identify with this scenario, may you continue to live good lives and feel worthy of love and connection. You have a friend, I am your friend, please reach out ❤
 @MomoMomoyan  If 'growing out' of an insecure family during childhood were as easy as that, half the world's insecurely attached adults would now be miraculously securely attached.
Me. 54 years old but still righting the wrongs my parents did to me. Plus bipolar disorder, severe depression and anxiety. Everyday alive is a miracle. Sad thing is I am pretty intelligent but couldn’t make much out of it with the bloody baggages I was born with.
Just makes them into the person they need to be. If people aren't trust worthy or loving, neither should you be.
 @MrLoobu  That's the problem. There are a lot of people in this world that are trustworthy and loving. This probably wasn't reinforced during his childhood, which can make attachment a challenge as an adult. Research longitudinal orphanage studies regarding a lack of attachment and how this experience as a child can have a negative lifetime impact.
Agreed. John Bowlby’s attachment theory is the most reliable of all psychological theories. No attachment in childhood = total insecurity in subsequent adult relationships. You will always think the other person is about to leave you, even if they never would.
@patrickmurphy9186  my mother is an early childhood interventionist, has been for 35 years. I know all about it.
Well I always pushed others away since I realized that I'm a piece of shit human being and every bond would just turn into me hurting someone. Now at 23 I'm completely alone and so far I love it. I just hope I don't live long enough to regret being true to myself.
I felt shunned all my elementary school years. No one besides a couple friends wanted to be around me. And I wasn't some Menace or anything I guess people just didn't like me. I am still scarred about that to this day turning 20 this year. I haven't had genuine connections with people my age for awhile. And every time friends I did have parted ways for a variety of reasons it cut deeper. I try my best to engage with my friends care about the stuff they do ask them to hang out but no one messages me back anymore I am a ghost. Last night I went through and deleted anyone who had not texted me in the last 3 months. I left those few friends that still don't message me maybe because I can't let go on the idea they have moved on.
 @Tropicoboy  I am 67 years old now and was once where you are with a school experience and the same in my 20s. I can’t really give you a reason why some people seem naturally popular and others less so. I’m guessing for me it’s part of my dysfunctional childhood and the nervous wreck I was. The good news, such as it is, is that with effort you can improve your situation. I found some therapy helps but mostly reading up on stuff and in particular CBT (cognitive behavioural therapy) helped quite a bit. Just take some comfort in the fact that if you put some time and effort into psychology and figuring out the whys and wherefore then over time your situation will improve. But, if it is like my experience it takes years although it should be quicker now with the information available on the Internet.
 @Tropicoboy  PS I know it is very much a cliche but a good start would be reading the book “ how to win friends and influence people” Warren Buffett said that book changed his life and most of it is just how to get on with other human beings and when you practice it over time things improve. It is not the indoor but is most definitely about the best place for someone to start. I gave a copy to my son and have an old copy from 1913.
Yes because we are actually just recreating our childhood over and over again and again.
 @andrewmurray3139  I am pleased to hear that this - YouTube comments disappearing - happens to others too!
​ @MomoMomoyan your parents are supposed to teach you how and equip you with the tools to deal with life. Otherwise what are you doing for your children ? Why have them in the first place? I was lucky I did succeed. Prison is full of people that didn't. And it's largely due to their parenting.
This made me cry only at 52 am I coming to terms with my attachment issues
@yaniswashington8828 It depends on your past experiences. Some people get stuck in life.
What's fascinating ( and confusing ) is how complex individuals are, including within one's family system.  Given a very dysfunctional home, two siblings might have very different takes on their experiences.  One not deeply impacted to where it severely negatively affects their work life and marriage, the other is profoundly scarred to the point of not marrying and riddled with anxiety over pursuing vocational dreams.  Then, to make matters worse, the former sibling judges the latter as being a loser.  Or the latter can be judgmental and envious of their sibling's progress in life.  It partly displays how selfish we can be in basically insisting others be like us ( with similar success or not ), and it also reflects how different our respective journeys are.  ( I am personally learning to still not be caught up in harsh self-judgment while comparing myself to others' lives.  It's a deep-rooted influence.  Some days are better, some days are worse.  Feelings and thoughts similar to James in the video.  )  What is also interesting is how a person from a severely dysfunctional home can be rather immature in some aspect of their character formation, YET MORE MATURE in other aspects of character compared to peers who look the part according to conventional social expectations.  ( $$$ / home / marriage / kids )  IMHO, it would serve humanity better if we each consistently manage and discipline our respective hypocrisies.  Every person is flawed, we are prone to pride, we are prone to stepping back into hypocrisy.  Which hurts us all, the more "successful" and those deemed "less so".
​ @redbirddeerjazz   So what part do you think is damaged. you can see damaged parts on a CT scan.
Overbearing parents who never teach their kids how to be independent is also an issue. We are seeing the effects more and more
Very true. But children turn into adults eventually so they can seek help for their mental trouble. But lots of these people don't do this. They end up stuck in their own life. Tragic.
 @redbirddeerjazz  well said - huge continuous strength (until it’s balanced and then the scales tip if possible)
Its interesting how the opposite can be said as an adult full of conditioning and identity: that a lack of attachment frees one of ones so called problems and the fear of being afraid.
If you are kind, honest, respectful & regularly help other people in some way (either big or small) that's plenty of value in my opinion.   It's never too late to achieve things in life. The world is full of people who went on to achieve all kinds of things later in life. There will never be a perfect time to start anything & time will pass regardless so you might as well habitually use the present moment to take a step closer to your achieving goals. Failure and learning are the worst that could happen and are just part of the process so it would be beneficial to get that out of the way early on anyway.   I say all of this as middle aged person who had previously stalled in many areas of life due to various circumstances but have broken free step by step and now enjoy a much more rewarding and satisfying life. The pain of regret is a horrible situation to be in. It is a conscious choice that one must make in order to perpetuate. I seriously wish you all the best and know that you have the power to end that suffering in your life. The choice has always been and always will be yours alone. Regret is a common mistake in life and I hope you begin to correct that in your life very soon.
​​​ @AwwwThatsMintocs I can totally relate.  Depending on on's faith, I am either blessed or stupid 😅, to have trust in God. Regardless how alone I am, I never feel lonely because I always feel God's presence.  No regrets, no what-ifs. Whatever happens to me, I take it as Providence or Protection or Preparation.
Honestly, I would suggest doing some voluntary work, be it helping in a charity shop, a hospice or visiting socially isolated people. Has helped me immensely and at least feels that you are doing something useful with your time. Lly
It’s all by design we are all in this together..if you haven’t come to that conclusion since 2020 then your still asleep 💤 ✌️lovely man 🧍‍♂️ and much respect 🫡 x
Just now i was thinking that about myself and BAM...i stumbled upon this video. 35 yo and im a complete failure.
​@AwwwThatsMintocs    I like most  of what you said. However, I disagree with telling people the choice is theirs. That's just not true for many folks. And after you've been beat down so many times by a cruel backwards society, the depression and hopelessness, poverty, etc, is not so easy to just dismiss.
Don’t let age define or deter. Each day is a new day, a new opportunity. Not very day ot every year or every decade is meant for creation and success. I myself have spend the last decade in failing financially and romantically yet succeeding spiritually.   New president in for 4 years, new policy changes producing new opportunities to make a Finacial difference for yourself. Take the leap.  Also, new medical pioneering for longevity means you can live longer than before if you take the steps to do so. See for ex Bryan Johnson Blueprint- but investigate what of it works for you, we are all different.
You just never know what impact you have had or are having just by your existence.
Well, I enjoyed reading your comment, so, there, that's some value that you've brought to the world.
All those things are irrelevant, no one will remember who had kids/money/house and who didn't in 100 years time from now, the only thing that matters is you didn't suffer during your lifetime, you could have been born somewhere like North Korea.  If you focus on the negatives you'll be blind to the positives.
​ @chihirostargazer6573  many circumstances in life are beyond our control but  these events are not sources of regret. By definition a regret can only occur in a situation where a person did have a choice but failed to exercise their agency in a beneficial manner or at all. For example they had failed to make a good choice,  had made a bad choice, failed to act, acted poorly etc. My comment was in reference to regrets but not uncontrollable circumstances.
@AwwwThatsMintocs  I understand and agree with most of what you said, it was really nice. It's just that sometimes things happen to people that scramble their ability to make good choices. I speak from experience, as someone with PTSD for a very long time. Things just aren't clear, good decisions are elusive, and there are predatory sociopathic human beings just waiting for us, that care nothing about inflicting more damage. I am doing the best I can but at the same time, I know it's not good enough, but again at the same time, frozen with fear and confusion... and being tossed around by a society that hates and punishes you if you are struggling financially. Money would solve so many of my problems, but the prices of things like housing have tripled where I am, and saving money seems like a fantasy.
If you're 60 and are taking care of yourself, which it sounds like you are, you could still have another 25-30 years to live the life you want, which is a long-ass time. Don't give up. Don't wait another 5 years and then look back in 2030 and wish that you had started today.
 @Frionelz  35 is young. I know you think it isn't, but it is. You're in your prime. But don't wait any longer. Get going. Make a plan that excites you about where you want to be by 40 and make it happen! Start building the daily habits you need to get to that destination.
Have you ever fed a bird, a squirrel, a cat, a dog? Then you have purpose.
Soinds like you're right sround the corner from change to doing lots of good...??!
Watch a Wonderful Life. You will always have an impact and meaning on other people's life no matter if you are aware about it. Life is not about achievements, the are not making you worth more or less. It's about leaving an imprint in someone hearth with genuine care and love. The way you showed up for others. Be grateful for being a good soul. That's should be enough.
If you’re a good person that’s all that matters. Trust me there are plenty of people with loads of money and very successful but are morally wrong and complete wankers. The better person is the nicer, loyal, trust worthy person.
 @chihirostargazer6573    I understand that mental illness can impair a person's ability to plan, make decisions, look after self and others etc.  That's a huge burden to bear but the reality is that life is hard for everyone in one way or another. We all have our own unique set of burdens to carry. If our circumstances limit our ability in some areas or are disabling we still have the choice to do our best with what we have and in doing so avoid painful regrets in life. Sometimes just surviving is the best that can be done.  I admire anyone who perseveres through hardships (as opposed to reacting negatively) and consider them 'champions'. Sometimes a hero is plastered all over the media and sometimes they are the unheard, unseen person who is dealt a bad hand in life but refuses to give up and instead chooses to bravely face each day especially when things seem hopeless.   Life is by no means fair & although PTSD is often a life long condition it is my sincere hope that you experience a significant improvement or recovery. Life is unpredictable & we never know what is around the corner. I really hope some blessings are headed your way soon.  💖
Mindfulness in plain English. Give it a read. Next try mastering the core teachings of the Buddha. I’ve been meditating for hours daily for 15 years, I could and will be happy no matter what at this point. Spiritual depth changes everything mate, please at least try to read some of the material :)
one certain day youll realize how valuable you were to the world, you only see the ships on the surface, when the sea controls all. Your spirit has a profound unseen impact on hundreds of thousands around you through a collective unconscious. Hold yourself as high as you can, and youll see what i mean when you finally pass, and go home.
@michaellebow God love you. Christ loves you. Love them back and your life will be more successful than most. Trust me on this one.
I say this as someone with no belief in anything supernatural at all, but if I were in your position, I believe I would join a church. It depends on which church and denomination of course, but it strikes me that you'll not find more of a sense of community, and more of a sense of duty to consistently help each other and be useful anywhere else. What have you got to lose?
How about volunteering for a cause, you'll meet people and help out
I'm 41 and have been alone since 14. I work a 40 hour week, the rest of the time I shy away from society. Never been with anyone.
I am 32 and im feeling the same even though i have a loving mother and girlfriend...I feel alone no matter and i struggle to pursue a career without getting down,its taken such a blow to my self esteem and i feel i would need to end this at 40 so i dont need to be more of a failure to those around me
I am same. Life now is just a living hell. When u get past 50 there is no fun anymore
Hi Michael, you have to ask yourself, why do you need these certain things? Similar to the man in the video, he said he "should" have a professional or money or a house. Why "should" he need this? Are you happy with yourself Michael? Forget about what things others have done around you. There will always be someone who seems to be living a better live than each of us.   Your worth is not dependant on your achievements. Remember that
Value? Are you a product or something? You don’t need to bring any “value” to the world. What kind of conditional self-respect is that? You can be the laziest, most "worthless" person, and it’s still okay. Billions of us weren’t made for anything important. Relax. Not being special is your strength. Let it go.  God or the universe screwed you over the same way it did billions of others. So what? Screw it back by not caring.  The easiest way to cope is to accept that you have a fate and were never meant to achieve all those things you desired so deeply. If something isn’t in your life, it was never meant to be. Free will is a lie. Regret is pointless.
U can change ur life. Don’t need to be a big swing. Just do it incrementally…it adds up!
One of my favourite quotes on TV is "all I can do with the time I got left is bring a little goodness into the world. That's all any of us can do."
Trust in Jesus Christ that this life is only temporary and that you can live eternity with him
When the society gives no path to success, it will blame its victim. Life isnt about success. Its not about having kids or making money or having a house or career. Its about living another day, and trying to enjoy that day the best you can. Our society has created such murky waters that people within the society see themselves as failures rather than blaming the society for treating a perfectly good soul as worthless.
You must take your own advice my friend, don’t listen to the same old story that you tell yourself of “I’m alone, I have so many regrets”. If you look around you will realise you are alive and you must live in the present moment because it’s the only moment any of us have. It will take time and patience and commitment but you can be the best version of yourself, now!
 @Frionelz STOP SAYING THAT ABOUT YOURSELF!!!! YOU ARE KIND,  AND AMAZING, YOU ARE IN GOOD HEALTH AND ALIVE❤❤❤❤❤
 @Frionelz  Remember no one is too poor to be unable to give anything and no one is too rich to not need anything. Take some time to give something to those in need. I don't mean money, give them your time. Go read to people at a home for hte eldery or visit people at the hospital, paint a school or help an old lady pail her snow. It will make a difference in their lives and in your hear too. I promise you wont feel a failure after you see them smile. Or at least not such a big failure. I hope you find your way to contentment. All my love
To you I say: walk the earth man. I did at 24. It's all adventure!!
When you die and realise you are much more than just a body...
 @Frionelz  your not even halfway through you’ve got time, go do anything you want go for it
Well, Sir - being a decent human being is THE value we can bring to this world. It most often will not get much acknowledgement or recognition, but that makes it no less to be proud of.
@Boocat94So very true, I’ve met loads of people who have very little that I’d much rather pass the time of day with than someone who’s loaded and flaunts their wealth. Most of the latter type are usually very shallow, self centred and not worth the time of day.
Michael make the last few years you have matter. Accept Jesus Christ as your saviour and spread the Word. You'd have saved a treasure for yourself, more than people who have it all here on earth. All what we have here on earth will count for ZERO not matter when we are dead, unless we spent time working for the kingdom of Jesus Christ.
Here’s the problem with your analysis:  you are only seeing one side of the story.   Stop and picture for a minute how many people you have inspired without even knowing.   A simple gesture, a smile, a nod or handshake, maybe holding a door open for someone, a brief one minute conversation.   Much like James here,  he has no idea how many thousands of people he has touched with a two minute conversation!   You are NOT alone.  There are millions of people like myself who watch vids like these to pay a respect and homage to ALL people of ALL conditions, to remind ourselves of the inter connectedness of all peoples and our stories.  James had it tough right from the beginning with a monster of a mother incapable of empathy.  Best of luck James, I hope you can find your peace my brother.❤
It's never to late. A boy came to Jesus with two fish and five bread—and Jesus used it to feed thousands. Jesus can take nothing, and make something really beautiful out of it. Give Jesus your nothing, sir🙏✝♥
Dear friend,   We've all messed up, and fallen short. We're all broken.  We can't deny it, we've all sinned. Have you ever lied, stolen or even looked with lust? Sin is so serious to a Holy God that we deserve death, and hell.  But please know that God loves you so much, He gave humankind a way to be forgiven. Jesus, the Son of God, came into the world. He lived a perfect life, and then died on the cross. He died the death we deserve, and took on Himself the penalty of our sins. Now all we need to do is put our faith in Him and we will be saved. Trust in the Lord, He cares for you. Repent and Believe.  God Bless.
Bless you sir. You're a good person and you've certainly helped me today.
Value? There is no need to bring "value" to anything anywhere. You ARE the world, because you exist in it. You do not need to bring value to anything or anyone. You have it simply existing here. Keep pursuing your interests, and avoid causing harm. You don't need to feel shame for existing.
 @Frionelz  you might be a failure but you a cool as fuck failure. Here is why: your authentic and don’t lie to yourself. In a world where everybody is pretending, you’re as real as it gets- that’s a virtue defines you from somebody else. 35,! You’ve got loads of time pal. Life is a comedy, try not to dwell. Move forward, slowly and without putting pressure on yourself. But always move forward. Best of luck
 @Frionelz  35??  You still have SO much time ahead to create new goals, work on those goals, achieve some and miss some.  I remember reading something years ago (in a self help book I think) where the author says "Have you heard the saying that 'a journey of a thousand miles starts with the first step'?  Yes?  So, get out there and START STEPPIN'!"  Remember, life is a marathon not a sprint.
I’m sorry brother. I want you are a vital piece of a much larger puzzle, even if you don’t always see it. Nonetheless, you still have time to make things right. It’s not the journey that makes a man, but his destination. Seek the destination man. Ultimately that’s found in God. I promise you, when you’re truly following the real Him with all your heart soul and mind, He’ll never steer ya wrong.
I feel the same way. I'm 50 and have a 8 year old daughter. Have nothing saved. No career. I wasted a lot of opportunities. I'm a good dad, though.
Trust me, you bring value to this world. So does James.
​ @Frionelz  id add something completly shallow because the other already told you what you need to know. You have also à charming face :)
Instead of regretting, Immense yourself in volunteering my friend, and spend the rest of your time working on your self development and brightening your light, that would be the biggest service to the world, and yourself, and will be a life well lived. One thing I suggest you to do, find a quiet place and write a letter from your 80 years old self to your current 60 years old self.
This worldly life is no more than play and amusement, but far better is the ˹eternal˺ Home of the Hereafter for those mindful ˹of Allah˺. Will you not then understand? (Quran 6:32)
Please find some way to find some meaning. Not other people’s definition, your definition. You matter and can make a difference. Be brave and get out there!! ❤
I have come Jesus said that you might have LIFE and have it more abundantly.
Please anyone watching this .. what ever your past ...you ARE worthy, you are beautiful, you are special... reach out ❤
Only one thing that matters: "We have only one soul. If it is saved, it is saved for all eternity; if it is lost, it is lost forever. — St. John Bosco  Strive to achieve the salvation and you will be happy for eternity. We are here but mere blinks of eyes.
Don't measure yourself by worldly things. Measure yourself by heavenly things. God didn't call on Moses until he was 80 years old.
 @MrSnake9419 Suffering is where the rubber meets the road. It’s where you get to see the who why and what you are. Without suffering how else can one grow?  Cool thing about the chap in the video, at least he’s not living in denial. Most folks prefer denial to dealing with their issues.
I always thought that if i'd still feel useless as I'll reach 60, I'd start drawing paintings
It’s about bringing value to your self, the world is the same as you. If you make something you like someone else will. Seem like a good guy. Gotta take your age outa ya head for awhile brother and give yourself a break x
do you have a kid or kids? im 37 now and i have archieved a lot in life good job i had a good child hood a lot of friends and i dont have a problem to get a girl. but im at the point where i need to decide if having kids an important part of life. im not sure if i should its so hard. basically i dont but what if its part of life? what if it is life?
Christ had no money, no kids, no home, and his friends abandoned him at his darkest hour.  Turn to Him.  He is the one that will give you meaning, purpose, hope and a future.
Don't worry about the value you bring to the world. Find something that brings you meaning. That's all we need.
Seek first the Kingdom of Christ and all will be given.  God bless you
What if someone told you the opposite was true and they could prove it? Would you listen?  I believe we are all conditioned by our upbringing.   In most cases, it's the misplaced expectations of a life of 'shoulds' that end up messing with us the most.   We compare our current reality with a way that the world should be...  I should have more money. I should have had kids. I should have friends. I should own my own home.  I should have done more with my life.   This is you comparing to an unrealistic fantasy of the way life isn't and will make you feel down.   Now, let's say I sat down with you. We listed out all the things you have. You mentioned health and interests so that's a good start.   Keep creating that list until you see that you do bring value.   In most cases when I see people like this ^ (I was one of them) - I see untapped potential. What if your value wasn't meant to come to you until you hit 65? 70?   At any given moment you can write the next chapter.   Are you going to continue running the story that you're a failure and done less with more? Because that will eat you alive. And it is a choice. Or do you write a completely new story?  You have an amazing potential inside.   "Rage, rage against the dying of the light" - Dylan Thomas.
Sorry but thats BS. You made the decisions that feld right to you at any given time in the past so why regret it. Total BS
 @Frionelz  no youre not. find reasons to be proud. look out a window and go breath that sunshine. that alone is a success.
Write a book. Talk to people. Better yourself. It's not too late to change. The sun rises tomorrow.
I'm about to be 30 next month and what you've just made me realize is that no matter how ideal I want my life to be, striving for idealism is always like hitting a moving target, and when that moving target is hit, there is always another one to hit. With that said, I've come to terms that life won't ever be perfectly ideal, but living one breath at a time has gotten me through a lot. As well as Jesus. The value you've brought in just one comment means the world to me honestly. I can't figure it out myself and neither can most people. I'd highly recommend volunteering through WWOOF (worldwide organization of organic farms). I volunteered at a farm in Japan and it made me feel more grounded in myself and a sense of peace that I've never felt.
the greatest gift you can STILL give to the world, and it was always going to be the BEST and most valuable gift you could have ever given the world, is Theosis, within and thru Jesus Christ and His Holy Orthodox Church.  You STILL gave your best to give, just give it all to God thru the Holy Orthodox Faith.
Take solace in you don’t need to pressure yourself into “bringing value”. Be a good person of upright character. Follow Christ. The end.
Unremarkable people don't worry about being unremarkable. I hope you have a great day sir.
I understand the feeling. You being so honest is rare, and you have helped others by this post.  If you ever come to Alabama, I would love to have you over for tea. God bless you.
Did you ever have any of these things? Do you regret never having or losing? Peace to you my friend ❤
 @MrSnake9419 this is interesting. Can you elaborate? Perhaps no one will remember, but will you yourself feel remorse when your eyes close for the last time? It’s a scary thought, but perhaps that’s it, a scary thought.
Sending a thought from Sweden to you! How about your relatives, any contact? Let them know how you feel. I hope you will stay well <3
Ill be praying for you all, Jesus Christ is the answer i found and he has been absolutely amazing. Under Christianity even if im alive doing nothing and have nothing or maybe even am nothing i still have a purpose, and its being his child, simply being here is enough. Love Ya'll cya.
Go to an animal shelter and walk the dogs. This can give you joy, purpose and also connection to others.
 @Frionelz  Not to word babble, but you are not “complete”; you are 35 - not at the end. You can still alter course.
Seek to find Jesus my friend 🙏 There’s no easy life here, but so profoundly fulfilling.
Eh, success and achievements are just a social construct. If you feel bad because society expected you to have done more, then don’t. You don't owe anyone anything.
JESUS LOVES YOU. He is everything that you need and He want to save You, He sacrificed his only son for You! GOD BLEES YOU, MICHAELL.
If you could give some advice to a 20 year old you what would it be
I fear im becoming that same type of person, and i dont know what to do.
Please find a good local church, I hope you will find kind people and be blessed 🙏  I hope most of all you will come to know the Lord Jesus Christ ,  He is the one who can heal our soul 🙏 He is our closest friend 🙏
U not alone. Hang in there,I know it is nothing when ppl say hang in there, but still just survive. Take care ❤️
You are not the ;could have been' man. You are really the 'I am' man. What are you? What have you achieved so far? Think long and hard about that. Every thing positive you have achieved. Write them down if it helps. It is never too late to reach out to someone. please, I hope your life improves.
I'm 59 and understand exactly what you are saying. Makes comolete sense to me
Beautiful photos and he is a great model. A man of great character too. His honesty was a truth that we are lacking in this modern society and he is not alone in his feelings. Bless him. Again, brilliant photos, you bought out the essence of this lovely man.
There are probably more people like this person than we like to think.
Find God, you'll find your happiness even after 60 years of doing nothing. Trust me on that one. I'm a muslim and God is all the company I need. He will guide you to other muslim brothers so you'll have friends, a home a job and anything you'd like as long as you have strong faith and do your prayers.
please post yourself on youtube, a fit man in his 60s talking about his life is def what i would want to see, please reply to this comment when you do start, ill be your first subscriber
Keep at it bro. There HAS to be something that will give you fulfillment and peace of mind. Keep searchin'.
What you've just brought to James. That genuine compliment. That depth. Vulnerability. We need more of that in the world. It's enough to be alive, but it's welcome indeed to be welcoming. People appreciate that. People need that. Even sharing your regrets can powerfully change people. Look at James, what he did here in only two minutes. It doesn't have to be seen by a million people, only yourself.
​@MrSnake9419 What a bad take. Saying that uf you don't live in North korea, you aren't supposed to feel depressed.
I think a lot of us are this guy nowadays. Having a “normal” life is pretty rare.
Come to Christ, He will give you a purpose and everlasting life.
Hey man, you ABSOLUTELY have value! Just being a kind human and spreading positivity is prob the most important thing to give to this world :). We love you mate!
society would have you think that but youre not a failure. youre much more than accomplishments or acheivements. you never asked to be born so these expectations hold no weight. just enjoy being a human on earth in our amazing universe.
"Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me" Revelation 3:20
Your experience is valuable to this world because it is unique. You are the only you that has ever and will ever existed and that is special.
The world lacks genuine people, that's why people like us exist. We are full of flavor and give salt to this world. But without proper guidance you lose that salt! Love the lord with all your hearts. Jesus loves you all.
How are you my friend? You are a beautiful amazing human being god bless you❤️❤️❤️
>can't find what value i bring to the world   You should think for a second that your comment that thousands of people read. Studies have shown that the average ratio for upvotes to comments are 5:1. Therefore, even though you got 4000 likes, that actually means that over 20,000 people have heard what you have had to say. It may not be apparent to you, but your words have influenced that amount of people.
You are not alone.   Jesus is right there for you if you reach out for him.
Think about the afterlife and seek the creator, I may be similar to you but I do not regret anything of loneliness because if it may ended up worse in the other case, this life is a small one for our eternal souls. There would come a time with love, peace, carefree with wonderful relationship without any worries, no hypocrisy, no fake feelings, no burdens and only purity, in the heavens. This is reality as you see and hear. This life is too small or almost nothing compared to our real one which is the hereafter
Don't worry I am 60 also I have lost everybody because my wife died and then all the friends all the acquaintances everybody even my relatives leave me behind so what I'm trying to say is that you only have people around you when you have everything when you need them they leave so those kind of friends are plenty true friend is really really rare and it's just only sometimes people have in one in a lifetime so don't worry you didn't lose anything
An insecurity is a perception within your own mind that an attribute or characteristic you posses is not quite ''up to par,'' so to speak. All insecurities begin, and end, in your own mind. Anytime you 'compare' what you have to offer, to what other people have to offer, you're setting youself up to develop a number of egotistical insecurities. This is why you should never base your sense of self-confidence and self-esteem on one specific thing. For example, if 90% of your self-esteem is based on your looks, guess what's going to happen if you're in the company of another person who you perceive as more handsome than you? You're going to feel insecure. Same thing goes for your level of wealth, your sense of humor, your level of education, your degree of success and so on and so on. Your confidence and self-esteem has to come from your ''total package.'' Every quality about you combined together should be the basis for your sense of confidence and self-esteem, not just on particular attribute.
Sir you have no idea how much value your experience brings. Plus I think it is also the small things that have an impact, little actions and gestures we do without even thinking about them but which at times the other person remembers and even get to be shaped by. That's why at times sb comes up to you and says..."oh you are the one who did xx", or "thank you for xx", and maybe you take it as a formalism but for the other person it is much more that that.
This is where I'm going, I can feel it. For me it's really just a challenge to connect to someone, anyone, even if I wanted to. Always can't find the right words to say, the right thing to do. I'm one of those guys where if you leave me with anybody, they will get bored 2 minutes in and nothing I say or do will interest them. Sucks but, this is life. Acceptance makes it easier I think. I hope.
What value do you bring… same can be said about all of us, can’t it?
“only he is lost who gives himself up for lost!” stay strong and God bless!
God is all you need, you know this deep down.  The sun shines on all alike.  Read the Sermon On The Mount each day until you can read it as though its your last day on Earth.
You don’t owe anything to the world! Our only purpose is to live our best life now, the past is gone.
Go to church, stop thinking so highly of yourself, aim to serve others and you'll have no shortage of healthy relationships.
OK, I clearly don't know you nor the guy in the video - but there is one tiny advice I would like to give: GET TESTED FOR ADULT ADHD. I found out when I was 55 and it made a HUGE difference. I now know that a neurological barrier exists between my imagination and my ability to execute. It's been there all my life, I just found ways to trick myself into doing things - and that got harder over the years. Knowing the root cause stopped me being angry at myself all the time. (BTW brain trauma can lead to "pseudo" ADHD/ADD... but the good news is that in many cases, ADD/ADHD medications work well in those atypical cases too).
For all who say it read, read your Bible or turn to Christ. That sure is important. But the Bible also says that it's not good for man to be alone.   Going to a church where it's not just sitting still for an hour might be a good idea. Or if that's not your thing, you could try football or walking football (depending on your age), or any other sports or club. Make sure you join something where people stay and socialise after the main thing. That gives you time to get to know people.  And don't push things. First get to know those people.  Being alone is better than being together with the wrong crowd (for you).
You could be a multi-millionaire and have made that money through selling arms that slaughtered millions. You could have been married 4 times, cheated on 2 and abused the other 2 terribly. You could have had 5 kids, but they all hate you because you were a terrible father.   Finding meaning is difficult in a world that only seems to value material wealth. Be satisfied that you've caused very little harm whilst you were here, treated people with respect and kindness and lived as honourably as you can.   I doubt that there's a person alive that doesn't have regrets. Don't let the rest of your days be filled with bitterness, do the best that you can at living humanely and you'll find peace within yourself.   (I'm far from wise or somehow superior, I've also struggled with existential dread and a lack of purpose or meaning my entire adult life. I just found that getting down over it only made it worse. So I started to look at it from a different perspective.)
Christ is all you need! Ask him to reveal himself, every life is special to him ! He loves you and you have a purpose still.
By being aware of a feeling that you missed the boat, shows how deeply human you are. That is what your contribution is, never feel like you failed. Your job is to experience life.
Colonel Sanders didn’t start KFC til he was 62. It’s never too late.
Seek God, to you are valuable to him. Relationship with God is the most meaningful thing you can have in your life ❤️
It's never too late. Put yourself out there. Make Youtube videos and talk about your life, people will watch it!! 💛
No one is born with manual „Life for dummies”, love. Don’t be so hard on yourself.
I hope this post finds you doing well. Your value is you, just being here. It's all about companionship and having you around, even though we don't talk or know you personally, is that we appreciate you are here. Blessings.
Give your life to Jesus Christ and the best is yet to come. God loves you
We all feel this way from time to time, sometimes way to often. I say you're still here, it's not over and lightening can strike and change everything. I know the feeling but don't give up.
Community service. I know someone who hasn't got many friend and is alone and aging and practically ready to die, but he finds great value in community service and giving. Maybe we should all do that.
Your value is. Being in this world. You don't have to achieve big things to be a valuable human in this world.   You are 60. You can still do a lot of things in your life. Chase your own dreams. It's only too late when you are dead.  Join a club where your interest is in. Or join an online community to learn new people.   Learn something new. Never to late
You only ever had one responsibility Michael. To live. Do that well, all our lives are just brief flashes of light. Don’t think too hard about it, it’s all utterly meaningless. Do what makes you happy.
How does this happen? Did you not work? I am genuinely curious
Never too late to pursue something new whatever it is. You still have today and thats enough.
No, you have 20 good years left to do anything you'd like. Take away your limiting beliefs!! FOR YOUR SAKE!
There's a massive epidemic of loneliness among men these days.  Divide and conquer works, but it has a price...  Tis the zeitgeist.
You can write. That is a rare skill in this day and age. In the past I used my writing skills to help people who suffered from our outrageous bureaucracy demanding written evidence from those who were only semi-literate or had English as a second language.
i'm 53 and told my co-worker today i expect i won't live much longer. not unaliving, not cancer...i just feel myself dying from loneliness. like i just feel it in my body.
@ Loneliness can be a killer. Lonely people need to get together
You can't take any of those worldly accomplishments with you. They don't matter. All that matters is love💗
We are so lucky to even have the chance to live and experience life. There are always going to be people who have a more exciting life as well as people who live the most miserable ones, people who don't even have running water or a roof over their head. Even if life isn't all that it could've been, we were still lucky enough to have been born in an age where it is possible to live comfortably. Keep a good head on your shoulders, there will always be new opportunities for change. Don't dwell on the past, make tomorrow a better day.
I've always thought the thing that brings the most amount of purpose and healing is helping people. If I ever lost everything that's what I would do, atleast try and make other lives better and who knows, it may even give light to mine.❤🙏✝️
Live for Christ and you will find meaning. Give to the poor as much as you can.❤I have had 37 dreams of the rapture. I can’t explain it and I don’t why. I’ve seen (who I believe to be ) Jesus in many of these dreams. I’ve seen heavenly things that gave me goosebumps for hours after I woke up. My message: repent and trust in Christ. He may still come back in our lifetime✝️
I think I fit the same description.... Some bad luck and poor reaction to disappointment over the years. But essentially I'm responsible for having lost sight of myself at some stage though can now say l have returned to more spiritual matters. But, of course, that may not be for everyone.
Well if James is, to you, then wouldn't it make sense that you are, as well?
There are no happy endings, its just an experience ...  No matter how big or small, its all there for you to savor, both the bad and the good ... People can have it all and still feel numb, its the pursuit that gives meaning to our lives not what we gain out of it, sometimes to ask the question is better than to have the answer ... no matter how great of an impact you make or don't we all close our eyes for the last time and move on to the next chapter where ever that may be leaving with just our memories and nothing else, people are forgotten and the world keeps spinning so don't let this idea that you've missed anything warp your sense of belonging ... wish you all the best and take it easy on yourself.
 @Frionelz Only at the end of your life will you be able to summarize if indeed you have failed, until then keep living❤️
Please all of you that says your are failure I believe is never to late to change and can you guys give us any advice
You're not literally him. You just share some common attributes. Good that you prioritize health!
Happy birthday! You’re still here because you matter. Please don’t give up. Two years ago I was very alone too. Depressed and unhappy. Then I had the idea to do this project and my life completely changed. I promise things can get better. All it takes is a few small steps in the right direction. Hopefully this doesn’t sound glib. I want you to be around for a long time, and living a happy life!
Happy birthday.    Mine is tomorrow.   22nd.
Happy Birthday/Feliz Cumpleaños from Spain! Travel, see the world, meet new people.
Happy birthday mate, sorry things are tough. I’m rooting for you.
At least you had some happy days. Life has been a suffering for me since the day I was born. No one wishes me a happy birthday either. Not even myself. The reason why im breathing is that I'm a coward.
Happy Birthday!! At least you've still got your wits. I'll bet there's much to be thankful for in your life.
Happy Birthday! It’s never too late to make connections slowly and build up a friendship. It can even just be online if you want it that way.
I find the deepest loneliness to be around people and still feel misunderstood, hurt, and rejected. Don't ask God why, but sincerely ask Him, "Who are you?" He will show you why you were created. "The Lord is close to the brokenhearted; He rescues those whose spirits are crushed." I will pray for you to feel His presence and never be lonely again!
I wish you the most peaceful and tranquil birthday, for this year and the next.  It can be painful, to look back into the past and see better times, the times before they were just memories to be played back.  It is bittersweet, even the happy memories are painful reminders of what used to be.  I try to tell myself, it hurts because those were great times, so they should be looked back at with joy.....but it stings more.  Love and pain, you need both for the contrast.
Happy birthday my friend  May every single butterfly  And every single bird Bring you love unbounded Like a vast vast sea  May every animal that chirps Sing love from me to you  May every ripple of every river Bring you happiness and joy   May all that has been left undone Bless the space between us all And a ship of heavenly warmth Come sailing to your port
Happy Birthday! I wish I was there in person to celebrate your day with you. 🎉
​@HMMileySmileyHM  what you say stirs something in me. I grew up in faith but God has always been totally silent for me. I searched desperately for years. Eventually faced with the indifferent cruelty of reality I gave up. He either does not exist or does ot exist for me. Practically the same thing. I envy those who see him even if they are dissilusioned. Life would be much easier without facing the Cosmic Void in its entirety.
((((((((((((((((((Hugs!!))))))))))))))))))) Happy Birthday. You are not alone. I’m very solitary too and could’ve been ______. We’re just fine. We’re enough.
Happy Birthday!  I pray better times are ahead for you.
Happy birthday from Redlands, California. We love you and are praying for you.
Happy birthday, trust in Christ, your reward will come in the kingdom.  Never ever give up.
Happy Birthday! You are here for a purpose only you can fill❤️  When I feel low or lonely I volunteer anywhere. I find the biggest smiles at soup kitchens. God bless you and know you are seen and we are all glad you’re still here
Happy birthday, dear friend. <3 You are so loved, you have always been loved, even if the people physically surrounding you in various moments didn’t or didn’t seem to. I’m so sorry for what you and James have been through. I wish I could give you both a big, long hug. There is good in this world, a whole lot of it. And it is stronger than the evil. God has always had a purpose for your life and He wants you to fulfill your potential and join Him in spirit whilst still on this Earth so that you can live an eternity in love and happiness. Heaven starts now. <3 He has always been always will be next to you, even in the loneliest of times. I think He’s giving you a chance to make things right, otherwise you wouldn’t be alive today. Your life lessons were unique to you, and each person struggles with his own set of temptations, so it will do no good to compare your life to another. We all have regrets because we are human - a broken machine that is bound to make mistakes. But the best thing to do is get back up every time we fall and make good use of the time that is given us. If you confess and repent to Him, He will help you to start afresh. Really! There is still time! All you have to do is reach out your hand and trust; He will do the rest. <333 If you haven’t yet read these books, I highly recommend C.S. Lewis’ religious series, including “Mere Christianity,” “The Screwtape Letters,” “The Great Divorce,” “The Problem of Pain,” and “A Grief Observed.” His writings have brought me light whenever I was in the darkness time and time again. Also getting back into children’s classics, even though I’m an adult, such as the Narnia series, Anne of Green Gables series, Little Women series, and Pollyanna has always pleasantly surprised me and made my faith and love for life stronger than ever before.
Happy birthday sir.   May your next be so wonderful you forget the last.  All the best
Happy Birthday from Canada!!! Hope you have many years left, so you can find that joy that you deserve. <3
Happy belated birthday young man 🎉 !!!  You are never alone -  you have yourself and the creator above all of us  All the best !!
Happy Birthday bro, find happiness in making others happy. Charity work or join a foster group caring for rescue animals. It gives my life meaning, ive saved 3 dogs lives so far ❤
Happy Birthday! I'm sad and alone too. Let's be that together?
Feliz cumpleaños 🎉!!!  from México.    Maybe you didn't achieve the socially expected achievements.  But you can fully enjoy life on your own terms as long as you do not seek to harm yourself or others.   Be generous with yourself in whatever way you can and be generous with others: Share the miracle of your life, your  own will, your perspective, your actions, empathy for every kind of existence.  Try to remember your childhood when you saw your hands, your feet, your body and you are surprised by them.  Be grateful for life even with all the pros and cons that your pain wants to point out first. ❤🌞🌛
Happy belated Birthday. We hear you. Wishing you much strength to change something .. if u can.
Poor victim people ask why me god? Rich successful driven people ask how can I learn from this and grow
Happy Birthday 🎂 🥳 🎉 Greetings from New York City 🗽
I'm 2 days late, but Happy Birthday! Don't lose hope, try to enjoy every moment of this life!
Happy birthday sweetheart. It's never, ever too late to make a difference, no matter how small. Simple and obvious, but oh so true.
Sunset and evening star by jonesy be here big brother 😊
I wish you a happy birthday i understand it may be belated but i sincerely wish you a happy birthday from the bottom of my heart!!   Read the other messages you are still here because you are important and you do matter all my love from Amy in Liverpool
С днём рождения, мой дорогой друг. Я тебя не видел, но уже люблю.
I know its a day passed, but happy birthday. I feel I dont have anything to be proud of either. I consider myself quite a horrible person at times, and I too often ask myswlf why I am here. I hope that both of us are here for something. I hope we can discover it.
Happy b-lated birthday!  And if you haven't heard this truth in awhile, Jesus loves you.
I'm only 36, happily married, but I feel this way almost every day. I feel like I am staring into an abyss. I fear my future, I'm afraid of the loneliness that I am choosing each day. I think we can fight against it by being of service to others. Is there anywhere you would like to try volunteering if you are physically able?
You are here because the world would be worse without you. Happy birthday to you.
Cmon.. better have no friend than 100 fake ones. You havent missed anything.
Happy belated birthday sir. You are very loved ❤️❤️❤️ please keep going!
Happy Birthday!! You are loved by all of us!! You are not alone!!
Happy Birthday friend ❤️ I am sure there is people who care about you. Even though you just maybe don't see them right now. Strangers are friends you just haven't gotten to know yet. Take care ❤️
Happy belated birthday brother! While we may not have met in person, I can tell you are a good person! Wishing you all the best!
"fighting against windmills" I really hope you read that book, because it can offer more hope and happiness than its saying suggests. Remember that even though he was fighting windmills, in his mind they were giants, and he was still a gallant knight.
Happy (belated) birthday Sir! Sending good wishes and kind thoughts to wherever you are ❤️
Happy Birthday my friend. I know how you feel - I could have written those EXACT words... I've been feeling like this for a while... BUT... I also hope  that change will come... because change always comes (although I agree that living on hope is exhausting and just not enough). In my heart I feel fear that it will just stay like this or even get worse... but every day I take one tiny step... to do things differently... just little things... because I know that if I change the things I do, then change. an happen. Some days I make art and be creative, other days I just change my routine and do things in a different order, other days I go online and contact random people.... New things. Dont push yourself too hard though... Just try one new thing.
The Lord sees you. Ask with an open heart, and deliverance will come.
Happy Birthday! Please seek the Lord, I know he’s waiting for you. ❤️
I know it’s a late wish but I wish you a very happy birthday and a year of good health, happiness and hope.  I understand, you may not want to hear this but I hope you may see this- I’ve battled with mental health practically for as long as I can remember and often speak about it. Recently turned 30, lost my grand father who im very close to in 2022 and my best pal in my DOG last year, moved countries after losing my grand father and went through the worst time & betrayal. I questioned my life almost everyday cried to take me away. When I turned 30 now, I have no idea what changed but I realised my pain is a huge part of who I am, I have the strength in myself and I can give to strangers even in my lowest and lonely times. I still find it tough to hold a job, step out of the house and trying not to hate myself as much. But I have started to see life for what it is- watched a near death experience video and found a lot of forgiveness for myself. I know it is lonely and time is passing by, but it is only in the plane that we will see it all- everything is beautiful beyond in the after from here. I know I can’t make it better for you or for anyone else, and at times it eats at me that I can’t do much. But my pain enables me to feel things with an intensity that I never have before and I send you strength. I hope you can be kind to yourself
Happy belated Birthday 🎉, I hope you find your peace. I find helping others brings healing to me. Because of the trauma I've experienced I know what pain and death is so I seek peace as well. You are valuable don't make how you feel now define you. May peace be with you and may you find your place that makes you happy to be here. 😊
Happy birthday, what you wrote I can relate too as well. And in a strange way, your emotion your feelings expresses here so honestly is what makes me feel connected to you. We are together in our aloneness, as we feel what another also feels. 💕
Happy Birthday, sir! I can be your friend. You are not alone in this! ❤
Happy Birthday. Lord Jesus. Bless these beautiful souls with love and friendship and prosperity. In the Name of Jesus I ask.
I'm a little late, but Happy Birthday!!! I hope today is a truly wonderful day for you! You are loved! <3
Happy Birthday. Jesus died on the cross alone, abandoned hurt, rejected a complete failure. Today he feels your pain and offers his glorious wounds to the father. You were loved into existence. Just don’t give up friend.
Happy bday!! Even if late. Keep walking as should we all
Hey man, things are rough sometimes and I sincerely wish you a happy birthday. From probably the other side of the world, i say that id gladly have a conversation over a coffee with you because everyone deserves company and friendship. I want to say that even tho this is a random comment on youtube, i will remember your username and will think about you. Hope you are doing ok . Cheers
I think u should leave west for a start asian countries can give a better bonds  Definitely you won't be alone if you reach out
Happy birthday! Have you looked into any hobbies you can do in a group? Choirs are great. Kept me sane in uni. The years without choir I went off track a bit.
Happy Birthday brother. Nobody deserves to be alone on their special day or any day as a matter of fact. Sending your prayers your way brother.
 @akj3344 Happy Birthday to you as well, brother. You might not believe it, but you serve a purpose in this world. I always used to think of myself as a waste of oxygen but once I actually gave life a chance, tried pursuing my faith and maintaining my health, life almost instantly got better for me. Its nowhere near perfect, but I am happier than ever before and thats simply just for trying. Many blessings you way brother.
 @GiorgosPlanar he is real brother, trust me. I wasted 11 years of my life, floating in an endless state of flippancy and agnosticism. It sucked, feeling void and empty inside, almost like somethings’ supposed to be there, but you cant tell what. It is a darkness that I wish upon nobody. I got so tired of the numbness and pessimism that I just decided one day to accept a possibility that maybe God is truly out there, calling out to us, and maybe the reason why we don’t hear him is because we don’t want to. But once you open your heart, and I mean, truly open your heart (not just repeat materialistic gestures that you’ve seen so many faithful people do) you WILL find him brother. I can’t convince you with words but one of the most important things in life is to never stop asking questions. God loves you and he is ALWAYS there for you.
Happy belated birthday brother! You're never alone, God is always a breath away and he loves you more than words can express. You are a human being and that in itself is priceless.
Happy birthday friend. I hope you find the turning point chapter in your life. We’re all rooting for you.
Maybe help others, give yourself without expectation. Believe me people will gravitate to you. Volunteer, find somewhere people need you and just help and give.
Happy birthday, you are not alone. My friend you are always welcome at Germany!
Bless you! Maybe you like to try going to a dance course to start something new? Anyhow; God bless you!!! ❤
Happy bday bro stay strong, brighter days can be just 24 hours away
Happy birthday ! Really you are not alone. I am sure that you'll can to solve your problem by the procedure of start a activity for the pursuit of determinated goal. I sugest you, for the example to create an YT channel about trips (lor ecture of books, comentary of movies, pilates )with the idea of that another lonely people , boomers or not boomers, man and women will join to these activities.
 @akj3344 You are here and important for God. I send you best wishes and prayers.
Happy Birthday. Sometimes we have to start loving ourselves before anyone will begin to love us. Hope you get there ❤
Happy Birthday. January 22nd, just like me. Be proud and amazed that out of the billions of potential human beings, you made it through and are made from the material of ancient stars. You are unique and you have friends out here you have never met. Great to meet you! It's never too late for things to change for the better. There are people out there who can change your life. It's not easy to get out and be social when your confidence has been stripped away and have little money, but there are ways. I've been there, but just meeting people turned things for me, in ways I would never had imagined. Don't loose hope. All the best.
​@akj3344 You are not a coward. Happy birthday for all yours to come. ❤
​ @GiorgosPlanar you are your 'god'. I wish you to recognise this. You are eternal and not from this world, only on it. You, I, people will return to our true home when it is time. ❤
Happy birthday! From the bottom of my heart please know that your life is precious and you do matter.
I’m 5 days late to this, but happy birthday friend! Please, don’t look at yourself through that lens. I know firsthand how shitty life can be, but all we ever truly have in this world is ourselves. If not even the person who looks back in the mirror has love for you, how can we expect others to love us? I know how easy it is to become consumed by self hatred, but people like us, were born from trauma and pain, and that’s what made us fall down a path of self labelled inadequacy. We’re not dead yet, so we have today to make better choices and make each day count from here on out. Please, dont’t give up hope. Don’t give up on yourself. You deserve the whole world and more, we all do. I’m rooting for you friend!
Thank you for your sincerity in sharing your story. Wishing you a Happy Birthday!
Look at the magic.. u open up and everybodys talking to you❤
Happy Birthday Sir! I know perhaps it's a belated wish, but I  send you the warmest regards from the bottom of my heart!  😊
Belated HAPPY BIRTHDAY from Leeds. So many Happy Birthdays! You are not alone.
The world needs magic. Do you realise the magic is you!  You should. Thank you!
i know i’m late, but happy birthday! and i promise you it’s never too late to find things you enjoy and that give you purpose. try new things any chance you get. it’s never too late to maximize your happiness, even if it feels that way sometimes. 🫶
I know I’m late, but happy birthday! I hope things get better for you.
Just know you are loved . Even though you don’t know it. John 3:16 is real and it changed my life friend. Seek him genuinely and I promise he will reveal himself to you, and that your life is of utmost importance
I hope that on your next birthday you have somebody to wish you a happy birthday! And I hope that you go out and find yourself some good friends. Good people are out there at any and every age, and I hope that you go out and look for them, because maybe if you keep seeking, you'll find one. Have a good year. Make a better year. Smile. Because life has the capability of being beautiful.
Happy birthday! It’s never too late for you. There’s always hope, even if it’s just a glimmer. Put yourself out there and keep giving yourself chances.
You need religion my friend. Open the Quran and God will give you contentment
It is hard, but please don't do anything stupid with yourself. You know what I mean? Your life must have some value (no matter what or how small that might be). Don't give up.
I know I'm 7 days late, but still, happy birthday :]
God loves you and he has a plan for you ❤
Happy birthday! Happy new years to come! You are not alone now.
Happy birthday mate. How about getting involved in some volunteering so you can meet some new friends and help others at the same time? Everyone needs someone, and I'm sure there's lots of people out there that need you in their life pal
Happy belated birthday!!! I have to ask though...what did the windmills ever do to you? How do you win a fight against a windmill? Do you have bad dreams about accidentally taking a flight to the Netherlands?  All the best. 😊
Happy late birthday - you aren't as alone as you think. I wish you all good things.
Belated birthday greetings! I feel your pain with regards friends, never been good at making or keeping them so just find it easier to keep myself to myself nowadays. I sincerely hope you had a good birthday and continue with your fighting spirit x
Keep your chin up, pain is inevitable but suffering is optional. I been going through it as well, I am not as old as you're I am a younger man, 27. But there are always things that we can do with what little time we have left. I have no idea if I will be fortunate enough to live to 65. I live with the thought of everyday could be the last, so I try to make the best of it. Take care of yourself and show yourself some kindness.
Jesus loves you! You're not alone! Give Him a try..it will change your life! Happy birthday brother ❤
i mean it best possible way, but you are still here so that you can still turn your path towards God in orthodox church and perhaps even find repentance.
Happy belated birthday!  I wish you all the best, buddy. Hang in there, things will get better
Happiest birthday to you. Wishing you lots of happiness, good health and blessings!
All the old loners should make a friends group out of this comment section and if possible meet in person
Happy belated birthday to you, good sir. You are not alone as well, there are people who wish or hope things would be better for you. If no one does, then I do. All the best to you, good sir.
In the Name and Blood and Power of our Lord Jesus Christ, may God help you find peace. Amen.
@piarademacher4024 You are the creator of your own life you can blame nobody but yourself.
Happy belated birthday. I think sometimes in situations like these, we need to be the ones to try and reach out. Because we’re all lonely, I know for myself, I never really knew where to start or had the motivation to. Cause I didn’t think it was worth the effort. But I feel connected here with you and all these people and to James in the video. God bless
It's been a while but from someone else who sympathizes (granted, to a lesser degree) at a younger age- happy late birthday. Take care of yourself. 🫂
Happy birthday @piarademacher4024 . What a blessing that you are alive today!! Enjoy the time that was given to you and look to make everyday a meaningful day. God bless you ❤️
Happy birthday from 🇫🇷 Hope you realize you ain’t alone 😉
Happy belated birthday!❤️❤️❤️ My brother you are not alone! Whats your name? Where do you live??❤️❤️❤️
Pia, I wish you a belated happy birthday. I hope today you have peace and joy. God loves you and I do too.   Respectfully,  KJ
Happy belated birthday man, wish you the best year ever ❤️
I wish you all the best don’t give up things in life can get better trust me I been in a dark place no matter what happens to you things can get better but you have to believe that and do what you can god will not forget you but first allow god to help you by helping yourself and start searching for improvement and help
I wish you all the best don’t give up things in life can get better trust me I been in a dark place no matter what happens to you things can get better but you have to believe that and do what you can god will not forget you but first allow god to help you by helping yourself and start searching for improvement and help
Happy belated birthday, my friend! It sounds like it's been a rocky 65 years, but I promise it's only made you stronger for the next 65. Godspeed on your journeys!
While it's tragic to not receive Happy Birthday when you are expecting one. Receiving insincire one when you don't want any is also tragic.
Happy late birthday! If you ever see this message, do tell us when exactly was your birthday, I would love us all to meet again in this comment section and wish you a proper timely happy birthday!
It might be because God knows that you have something beautiful that you can give to the world, maybe there is something great god wants you to give the world. Its in you my friend explore it. Much love
Internet is open. Just make friends with like minded people. You need to move and try.. Absolutely do something until you say I've tried everything it didn't work.. Keep going life is to live no one knows our time on this beautiful planet that you live only once. Look at those soldiers  in Ukraine war.. Being killed or kill themselves for nothing. As long as the heart beats you can keep goin
2 weeks late, but wanted to wish you a happy birthday too
Happy birthday. My advice, start doing some hobby, do different things beyond your zone and different things will begin to happen. Seems like you are stuck in your own head far back in time which would make anyone deoressed. New good events build new good memories. Hope you learned something today! Cya mate
Actually the reason why you’re still breathing is because you’re strong. Cheer up brother/sister.
Happy birthday... I know I am late but I wish you all the best ❤
Happy birthday, brother (althought a bit late) ! You are not alone, my friend!
God bless you sir. There are special places in heaven for people like you. The end is not.
Join a gym go to the library bingo get out meet people
This might sound a bit mental, but I've always thought that the human downfall is our abnormally high levels of emotion. Our attachment to others, our empathy, worry, grief, stress, loneliness... these things have too much potential to completely take over our mental state. It often clouds our judgement and can make it hard to just be "happy", hindering our progression on the path that is life. I honestly think that things would be so much better on this planet if humans weren't so damn emotional.
All the birthday wishes here are deeply sincere. I hope you had a happy birthday despite everything.
I can relate as well.  Happy belated birthday !  From Texas
Happy birthday dear, it’s NEVER too late as long as there is breath in your lungs have time to do something amazing. I’ll say nothing satisfies the soul like helping others. Start by your local charities, food banks, animal shelter. The purpose and happiness helping the cyber ale gives you is beyond anything you wake up everyday knowing that your presence in this life is of value.
 @modelstrangers  Happy Belated Birthdays. I hope you're around for a long time too!
He's alone bro. You just thinking it's not but he is,sorry.
 @akj3344  no - the reason you're still breathing is there is a wiser voice deep inside
Hi buddy, I hope you had a great day, I genuinely hope you are still with us and that you find/found a purpose to what this is all about, good luck.
Happy birthday stranger. You earned a free bday sidecar tour from me when you visit San Diego. Cheers. Nik
Happy birthday, I wish you good health and all the best.
God I should work my ass off for my three little daughters. I have things to fight for. May Allah grant you peace.
Sending you all the love.  I feel (and share) your pain.  And happy belated birthday.
Happy belated birthday my friend.. although we have never met and our age was far apart, wish you well and happy always..   I did have lots of friends but I made lots of irreversible mistakes which led me to feeling bad and guilty every second.. I wish I could turn back time..
Happy belated birthday to you and may you find true happiness in whatever you have.
Belated best wishes, I didnt tell anyone about my 40th, a lovely lady said I looked well, I had a raging tooth infection and due to walking out of a jobbshe had blessed me with employment, I had economised and bought cc cream, applied and looked like an oompah loompa and went to work, id washed the first lot off but was told I looked well, you are not alone, I really do wish you well, you are still here and really hope u laugh at my frugal faux paux. 12 years later I'm here again ffs won't bore you, but please I'm sending best wishes and lots of love😊
I heartfelt request to study Islam wholeheartedly and you will find your purpose for sure!!! Just do it!!!!!
Happy belated birthday Sir. Society hasn't been kind to us unfortunately.
This might sound harsh but You feel this way because you are living for your self. Start living outward. When you come out of bed in the morning, promise yourself that you will be friendly to others, say good morning, help someone,throw in a compliment, something small, and you can be the one that makes someone else’s day great. Be a little light in this dark world and light wil come to you. No Mather how much you are hurt and think you have failed: yesterday’s gone. and tomorrow is unknown, al you really have is today. Manage this day! Say no to every negative thoughts that comes to mind, instead think of something that your greatful for. And know that you are loved by our Father who is in heaven. He sees you, he hears you and he knows you. Talk to Him. And your life will be worth living❤
Bit late, but Happy Birthday to you and best wishes and health
Some of us are born with nothing. So we strive to have something and never give up. Try looking at the things from the different point. And don't feel sad about the memories that are gone, be glad that you have them. Happy birthday.
 @Joe-sg9ll  Not pity, but rather empathy from a fellow lonely human being.
We need to find each other. There are married people too, who are terribly alone.  Accepting, loving, touch.
It's heartbreaking. I have compassion& sympathy towards him. Not pity. So he knows. Some people do care. I'm sending him love & hugs from Canada. What a great human soul. He's more than he believes.  ❤
In a case like this do you the photographer ever keep note of more information like name & address. People can be penpals, correspond. I'm sure he's not the only one alone.
 @carmenb9020  Carmen, you make me proud to be Canadian. What you've said is who we are...have a great day.
And a hug from Newfoundland! Between us we have Canada covered. ❤️
It is never too late to be the person you could be. Today is all anyone of us have.
Canadian here. James, if I had your address, I  would write you a letter. Love to hear about the plays you have written.
Are you going to visit him? I don’t mean to sound horrible but Hugs from Canada isn’t going it cure his loneliness. He needs actual contact with people not cheap, easy to say  statements that does very little or anything for a guy who is lonely.
I feel like a failure too. I had many psychological issues since I was I child, then an autoimmune chronic disease showed up and I had to undergo 18 surgeries. Now I'm alone, moneyless, lacking motivation to keep living. If people who had a  troubled life could get in touch ... It would be a relief for everyone. ❤
 @denisbaroni3026  Denis, if you are brave enough to write all of this down, you can encourage others who haven't made it as far with their lives. Our jobs here on this planet (just my opinion) are to do tiny things to make a difference for someone else. A kind word/a smile. We can't erase the pain or the worry, but we can encourage each other because we ALL matter and are here for a reason.
Im about to be James in 20 years, and im in your country, not that far....
Who ever needs to read this. If you need a friend - write me. I know the best Brownie recipes and can be incredibly unfunny. I hate Laughter and Puppies. Jokes aside, write me.
 @SHRFUTD  In a spiritual sense, we are ALL connected and must try to be friends. Even thinking good thoughts can make a difference.
That's awesome lori and from another Canadian in the East James you are a great man
He could have ended up so badly, but didn't. Under his circumstances, he achieved a lot.  Bless you James.
when most people think they can outgrow childhood traumas, when in fact their ego is protecting them all the time from facing those traumas so they can actually heal and stop being a burden
in fact we are all experiences mass trauma . if I explain anything this people will delete this message. just know that trauma shuts off the brain
@ i think its quite reasonable and certain there is still intergenerational trauma since ww2... And tbh, i doubt modern system would've been possible without it.
Yeah, amen. To understand who you are takes some soul searching, and to be humble about your misgivings is a blessing. James is there.
Normally people that go through those situations spend lots of time thinking about it and they understand perfectly what was wrong, but unfortunately the trauma is part of their lives and even if you decide to forgive the person that did you wrong, the consequences live within you
 @sebastianmedinaamaro7576 You have that choice. The bigger the scar, the bigger the gift. Trauma’s are meant to overcome, and to become abundant in the parts that you missed. That’s true evolution and spiritual growth.
It´s sad to realize there´s a lot of people not ALL people who became addicts for any tiny thing except this kind of deeply lonelyness. In Mexico we used to say "People got drown in glass of water". Again, NOT ALL PEOPLE.
 @juliusjacob1416  You're being too idealistic. Traumas do take a toll in people's life, and even if you think that you overcame them there's always something hidden within you that can suddenly manifest in the most unexpected ways
No if he was truly self aware, he would have changed a long time ago to be the person he knew he could be. Instead he let time passed, and chose to accept the worst version of himself. Look at how comfortable he is telling an absolute stranger that he is the biggest failure on the planet. Imagine how many people he has said this to throughout his life.   I think he is comfortable saying this because a stranger pittying him is the closest thing he has ever felt to being wanted and loved.   Moral of the story: use ALL OF YOUR  time to improve your life and make it as best as possible. NOT for impressing others. NOT for chasing women. NOT for entertainment. USE YOUR LIFE
 @jorgecuello2697  I 100% agree. Instead of actually overcoming his problems, he got comfortable with believing the story that he is a failure, and that he could have been more. That's just not having character or discipline. He could literally change his life right now, it's never too late. And instead he probably keeps doing the things that make him a 'fairlure' or nobody instead of using his time to improve or become better. Note how he also hides behing the story of his mothers love that was lacking. That's NOT an excuse to fail in life at all. I've heard many people overcome way worse trauma's than that to become very succesful.
When all you've got is yourself then all you've got is time for self-reflection to think and rethink what could have been and what you are not.
That is very true, James should be proud of being so self aware, and teaching that lesson to the people that are listenning to what he has to say.
It’s absolutely not an achievement and nothing more than life’s circumstances. Having crap parents is not an achievement.
 @col8353  surviving crap parent is an achievement. And miserable people have to have something to be proud of to survive. Not everybody have good life's circumtances that allows them to achieve anything. Have some empathy. And stop crying about nothing.
(just guessing) he might be excessively self-aware and have spiraled into narcissism. Cause and consequence of that loneliness. But of course I don't know anything
​ @juliusjacob1416  You clearly haven't understood how trauma works. It's also very pretentious of you to judge a stranger and call him out for "lacking discipline". Why do you even need to put yourself above some random person, if you truly believe that you are a flawless human being who has figured life out? Are you even aware how little control people have over their fragile little brains. Do you even know that being "disciplined and successful" is also a sad little coping mechanism and the effects of your genetics and upbringing? Ask yourself why you need to make yourself believe that you have everything under control by being "disciplined"... You don't control/decide your life... Life controls/decides you.
 @M.M-t6u Lol. You clearly have no idea who you’re talking to. I have experienced trauma to the level that could be labeled as pretty ‘extreme’ (I hope you respect the fact that I’m not going into detail in a youtube comment section).   Secondly, where do I judge him or say I am any better?? I make objective statements. He lacks discipline. There’s no judgement in that. I period lack patience. That’s also just an objective statement.   Life is meant to overcome. Life doesn’t happen to you, it happens for you. Bad stuff happens to awaken you to your true power to grow and overcome. If you choose  to believe in a reality where you are a powerless victim to your circumstances, than that will be your reality. If you are wise, you choose beliefs that support your growth.  Those who believe they can and those who believe can’t are both usually right.
@juliusjacob1416  By saying that he lacks discipline, you are judging him. There is nothing objective about this statement, also considering that you made this statement based on a couple of words that he spoke. Also judging someone is a way of self enhancement. Just because discipline is something that you value and your preferred solution to your trauma doesn't make this everyone's way of coping with life. Try to get out of your bubble. Your point of view and the way you experience life is not valid for everybody. Have a nice day.
@M.M-t6u  99% he lacks It. Sure he lived through difficult experiences. He isn't to be blamed, but he is RESPONSIBLE of what happens to him. In the past, maybe his mother was the one who could have the most impact in improving the childs future. Nowadays, im 99% certain its him.  He has two decent plays written. Who says that? Never showed them to anyone, maybe? Never faced rejection, didn't write 10 or 15 plays.
EXACTLY! The awareness, oh my God! That is painful but the greatest lessons are supposed to be hard.
Self awareness is just a fancy word for self consciousness. Its not a good thing to think about yourself all the time
He has self-awareness because he's old. So it's not special,sorry but it's facts
Plenty of people have childhood trauma. It's sad to see those who have never advanced past it and hold onto it as a burden, and treat the past trauma as an excuse. I won't be one of those people, and neither should you or anyone else. But I see it so often.
sure but if this awareness feels like his only achievement it's just a giant burden
James is an actor and can't even put on a half-decent Irish accent.
Given the state of our unloving, faithless and violent world, I’d dare say there are millions of “James” walking around, sadly. I truly hope life is kinder to him ❤
I am 73. I sometimes jokingly say...'I could have been something'....but it's not a joke. I'm not a victim. I am a survivor, with nothing much to show for my time on this earth. Not even a garden, although I have made many. To all of us, blessings, especially to James, living in the country of my dreams.
Impossible. He has passed his time. Once you hit a certain age you are reaping the rewrdsmof a life , not creating alife. Dont believe me?  You will
 @clarkpalace  Nonsense. Even if this may be the case for you, it is not the same for everyone. I'm more of a James myself in this case but I've seen people older than him reinvent themselves and found some kind of happiness/contentedness.
BEWARE what you wish for—you might find yourself in a dungeon, headless, dead-staring at other decapitated heads who want to be friends.
 @Bastillemoteurs  what if badger zombies are invading and the dungeon is the only safe place?
 @Bastillemoteurs  says a lot about your mind that that is what you came up with.  I'm more afraid of you than him.
Well said, I agree. Can I go buy you a beer James?
 @soapmode  Hey, don't talk about us badgers like that. I'll have you know we're immune to zombification. I'm more afraid of the world being overrun by people like @Bastillemoteurs, personally. And yet every day I wake up and find that seems to be the reality.
Why would you want to be friends with someone that has a victim mentality
 @Bastillemoteurs   first of all he didn't wish for anything second of all your comment is miles more disturbing that the whole subject of friendship . i recommend you stop watching horror movies and just try to have some faith in people
 @torom86  says the guy who's going to end up headless in a dungeon all because they were too trusting with strangers from the internet
You would not wish him to be your friend even if he was your neighbour. It's because when being filmed, things seem like they're full of meaning, yet in reality everything fades to nothingness and then you come to realize people are all the same, no one is special for you and nothing seems as important as your own struggle for happiness. Now you know why James never had any friends in his life. It's because all the people he met only saw him through the eye of reality and vice versa
 @soapmode  If you got enough of food and water,sure why not?
Unfortunately the truth is he may not want you as a friend. I'm sure we all have different views but myself, personally, can't bring myself to trust others so readily. What I call my "friends" I feel more akin to how people describe "associates". I'll readily open up to anyone, not because I trust others but because I figure, nothing to use against me if I have no secrets. Sure I do have 2-3 people i consider myself close to, but I don't talk to them every day, nor do I believe I can rely on them. And I far more frequently prefer being alone as opposed to being around others.
​ @Teen-Tok-Shorts  No, he hasnt. He is clear about results and that is a very good thing.
The secret is that he never was,if you think about it…it is a sad and fake reality that james needed to be recognized.
You don’t care about him, you’re saying this to make yourself feel better. It’s been 4 days and I’d bet the house on you commenting this same sort of stuff.
He was never a nobody. He is just a bloke who didn't fit the mould of what society was. Too young to grasp the wrongness of his reality, a playwright not interested in being slotted into the gearbox of society like all the other good cogs. Just missing confidence and self belief, that a solid relationship with the people who are supposed to guide and build you up, would have provided. I can deeply relate to that. Shame on you for dismissing him so blithely, and shame on everyone who got this comment to 500 likes. Ironic that your username is "nobodyasked"
 @michaelhorne8366  I didn't say he is a nobody just to dismiss him. He said it himself that he is the greatest failure on earth because nobody cares about him.  I dismissed his negative statement by my factual positive statement cause people in fact will watch and care about him now, even for a moment.  Learn to understand the concept before commenting acting you know something others don't. And the 500 likes you are referring to has gone upto 660 and it will grow more cause not everyone is depressed and takes everything negatively. You are embarassing yourself.
"See & care about" but only superficially. Yes this is better than nothing, but we need authentic connections that are permanent, yet-open ended. Maybe someone will recognize him and that will indeed happen? But we need a social culture of loving inter-dependence as a true solution.
 @Cash_Mack  Yup congratulating him about how he is more special than most of us by getting recognised is a sign of me being a narcissist. Makes complete sense.
in under 20 years. Not being one, anyone can look up online, will be unique people. As soon as we went from calling it celebrities to influencers. Is where we started the era where everyone and anyone can become known. Soon we will move into the era where not being known is gonna be almost impossible.
@ that’s the most redacted zoomer logic I’ve ever heard lmfao
 @Cash_Mack   That's your logic, not mine. So calling yourself that, is a sign of self awareness. Which is good, since most people are not aware of their stupidity.
parasocial and worthless acknowledgement coming for us detached strangers on the internet.... but sure... I guess it's the principle of the statement that counts.
@ lmfao get off the internet for one second buddy, it’s going to be okay.
 @Cash_Mack  Yk nothing is more inferior than- when you keep complaining about someone but can't exactly point out where they are exactly wrong.
 @Cash_Mack  "L" "zoomer" "redacted" Bro you are in no condition to take part in this mature conversation. You are literally using words used by some 13 y/o or maybe you ARE 13 ☠☠
​ @michaelhorne8366  I don't think the comment was in bad faith. It just provided a silly instant "solution" for this man's heavy burden that's supposed to somehow make the readers feel better about themselves. Bearing a witness to one's existence. We live in the camera pointing world today. And if not that, then its the internet. Don't know which is worse but here I am on the internet commenting away not knowing much about either of the two of you.
Yeah, that won’t give comfort. No one is actually fulfilled from the internet. Jesus is the only one who can give you peace.
For me that's peak level of honesty and self awareness. There are a lot of people in his shoes right now but not everyone faces the reality like he seems to do. Bless his soul.
Some people these days call this trauma dumping, which is a great way to isolate and push people even further apart and ensure that people will avoid talking about their problems, preferring to suffer in silence rather than being ridiculed for trauma dumping or ruining "the vibe".
 @fantomas4935  I can see your point here. My take is the photographer is asking questions to have him relax for the portrait. It an be a very intimate thing when you have a connection with the person taking your picture.
This is just a reminder that you never know what people are going through. That kind word or just taking a minute to talk could be something that someone really needs. He seemed like he really needed to talk to someone.
Just lets you know that james really doesn't have anyone to talk to
 @X_Annedolf..Frankler_X  it’s just a turn of phrase.   Like saying “bless you” to someone that sneezes. Lighten up
@QuotidianStupidity  No it's not. It directly comes from religion. Educate yourself.
@ I know what its origins are, that doesn’t affect what I said.
But its BS. It was the best decision back then so why regret it. Total BS
 @QuotidianStupidity  It doesn't matter, you're still wrong. Regardless of my username, regardless of what season it is, what day it is, what time it is, regardless of the color shirt you're wearing... you are incorrect.
 @X_Annedolf..Frankler_X Ahh yes! Pinhead the Pizza Cutter! All Edge! No Point! Coming to a theater near you!
"Bless him" is such an effortless statement. I know you didn't mean it that way, but it almost qualifies as a statement better left unsaid. Mine too, perhaps.
 @QuotidianStupidity  that's not an opinion it's a fact learn the difference
And the narcissistic photographer just wanted the photo and go away 1:50 💀
 @fantomas4935  It is not really trauma dumping in my opinion. The man was approached as if he was somebody special or extraordinary and he was describing how he feels this isn't the case at all.
 @Muck-qy2oo  well in some cases I've seen more recently, people are quick to judge it like that, which was my entire point. "Trauma dump" is a dumb concept that people who can barely acknowledge their own emotions and traumas made, when feeling overwhelmed by someone else's trauma stories.
I feel for him a lot but I also reckon he opens up a fair bit after some pints at the pub
I wish i'd live closer to him, so we could play chess besides a tea and a good conversation!
​ @X_Annedolf..Frankler_X  May the precious blood and sacred heart of Jesus Christ bless you and James. Jesus loves you more than we will ever comprehend. One day you will see Him face to face.
Because he's so lonely. His problems started in childhood with his mother who was "like ice" as he says and clung to him until old age. Sad stuff.
Not necessarily that he wanted to talk, but it's just that these days it's so hard to get a conversation worth anything. We're stuck in chit-chat, small talk, "how are yous", and such...
​ @mattheww797  ... Dat vraag ik mij ook af bij dit soort (interview) filmpjes.
I certain ways, I share his story and know how he feels. But I have Jesus in my life now, so all is GOOD.
"This is for all the lonely people, thinking life has passed them by...."
Oh quit your yapping and go out instead of watching utube vids.   «Συν Αθηνά και χείρα κίνει».  We've said this shit 2500 years ago and it still true.
Just talk to people. Make the first move. It’s nice to have friends but feels equally good to reach out, even a “Good morning” in the street can change someone’s day.
 @TheDAT9  I may some days not speak to or have any contact with anyone. But I chat to God constantly and hope I’m not a nuisance :- )
 @Bizzlle  Of course you are not. You are a child of the Universe. You are him, and he is you.
Thanks for allowing him to at least have this moment. A previous gift.
This cracked my heart 💔 I hope he is okay now.
Bad idea. Checked your wallet afterwards, at least? Or its missing conveniently left out of the story to keep the sentimentality?
 @TheRocketman136  not every homeless person (or stranger in general) is a thief.
​@ not every human is terminally ill, but you don't treat everybody like they are.
 @TheRocketman136  you couldn't have worded that any worse lol. Do what you want, it's highly unlikely he would feel compelled to share the story if the guy ended up using the opportunity to steal. I don't know about you but when I hug someone their hands aren't anywhere near my pockets either.
This is no joke if you've not been hugged for a long time. One of my distant aunts hugged me, I think this was after 10+ years of no hug and it felt so warm, almost cried later thinking why this cannot be given and received regularly.
Speaks to your energy - you made him feel safe. That's a beautiful and much needed thing in the world. <3
I didnt expect a random comment on YouTube to hurt me today, but here we are. You're an angel ❤.
 @TheRocketman136  That sentence is truly mind blowing... WTF are you attempting to say?
a great many people live and die in lonliness with no contact or touch of another human for much of their lives. and there are 8 billion people on the planet.
​@TheRocketman136 Now, you shouldn't assume the worst case scenario for the story. That said, I agree that it's a big risk to take to hug a homeless man. Stealing your wallet could be the least of your concerns. The guy could be off his rocker.
You're a better person than I am because I would have said no just out of fear of being stabbed or robbed
​ @athmaid maybe it's because I live in a backwater country, but someone "opening up" really shouldn't make you less cautious. One time an old lady asked me to help her with her groceries, I said sure why not. She was making small talk, telling me about her life and whatnot. Next thing I know, she pulls a knife and behind me there's two guys she apparently tipped off. Not saying homeless people are all bad, but the bad ones will always exploit people's good nature if possible
 @athmaid  not every homeless person has a hatchet, but enough of them do
I remember going to London with my older sister we might have been in my brothers house who I hadn’t seen since I was 4/5 I was 11 we had a big family but I wasn’t used to being hugged and he was all hugging me and I wasn’t used to this affection, I hug my children tell them I love them always..
Bro was prolly high as shit tryna smell your hair lmao
@donaldturner5124 reminds me of something that happened to me in Sofia, Bulgaria. met an elderly woman coming from the doctor and she was asking for a little bit of spare change as she couldn't afford the prescribed medicine (in BG you have to pay upfront and then get reimbursed by the insurance). when I asked her how much it was she said 50 leva (around 25euro) and just gave her the money.   the hug (she didn't ask, just hugged me tight) and tears were so sincere and made me cry with her.
Holy moly … really makes you realise how tough life can be for many folk.
 @TheRocketman136 Christ, God himself, abhors your comment, I promise you that you have much changing to do.
I hug and kiss everyone. Luckily my wife is Italian and so are a lot of our friends, so for then it's normal. But I hug and kiss my English friends, too. I know it's a bit weird for them, but as time has gone on they've got used to it and now it's the norm.   We should all be inviting each other with open arms. We should all be sharing our warmth, love, and care. It's our magical power.
And what can we take more from this life than truth, kindness and love in ones heart, even and specially because of loneliness? These are the right things to take, as if ones relationships, material success and joyes of this life cannot bring us this warmth of heart, then they are useless.
My guess is because they're desperate for connection and have very little to lose by exposing their flaws.
I respect him for being honest, it can take a lot of courage to share those details with a stranger
 @thedude00 desperation is certainly one reason. Another one just as likely or more is that they value connection infinitely more than the average person because of their pain. They see the true meaning in it, while we’re just used to it and take it for granted. In every persons eyes you can see some intangible quality, that mystery of a being existing and you connecting with them in that moment. Let’s appreciate that.
Ppl as me why am I so honest when I speak...but nobody ever asks me how am I doing
You have to go through the mill to truly understand. It's those who have never been tested that act like fools and pretend they know.
Truth!  The most honest and caring people are the ones who've been hurt terribly in life. And the most generous and open-handed people are those who have very little. While the coldest and most graspingly greedy are the ones with the most material/financial wealth.
Cause one knows how it feels - you must be a very bad person if you want others to feel the same pain.
Kind of odd how the people who never experienced love can be so gentle, and the most loved people are the biggest crap piles.
The (frankly very sad) thing is that the very same circumstances also create the lowest, meanest and pettiest of all, who keep being angry and bitter and never understanding why no one wants to get close to them. I suppose it’s a fork in the road.
Logic tells us that this is how it should be, but unfortunately this is not always the case... It is not unusual for an abused person to be an abuser in the future.
Not always. I've seen plenty of others that turn bitter and spiteful despite being in the same circumstance. It all comes down to your attitude and how you react and choose to be as a person.
I also find this to be true, and I think that it takes alot for one to be this way and not hateful and cold to others because of what they have been through in life.
 @thedude00  No, it's because they have lost their ego so don't need to hide behind a mask as they are authentic.
not nesseserily. caring and kind is a character not circumstances. i know terrible people who have been hurt in life.
This comment made me cry. It reminded me again, that I am who I am because of my father, from the love he gave me to the correction speeches when I was not going in the right path. Thanks a million papá ❤️
If a person can get angry at you, it could be because they care. The thing you gotta be concerned about is total indifference and apathy towards you and even treating you like a punching bag and burden to them. No interaction too.
neither of my parents cared enough to get angry, to light me up, to even try.  they watched, and continued paying tuition and the bills, as I became an alcoholic before their very eyes. they didn't actually even notice.
That made me cry. I am 20 and I am in a constant argument with my father about his alcohol addiction which led him to lose his connection with me. Now he has cracked down on some of what he drinks and drinks a minimum but I fear he will fall into the trap again... I honestly feel like I am as best as I could be - I have my own business that is bringing as much , if not more money than him , I am in my second  year of UNI with good grades , no ALC , no drug etc... How could the problem be in me?
I have been wondering what happened to you since the saints and scholars channel. I really think your writing is genius. I hope you post some of your work again. The one poem you posted about the grotto brought me to tears. Unbelievable. Is there anyway I could speak to you about how you write?
Wow, I cried knowing how much your father loved you to tell you all of that and how much you respect yourself and him for recognizing his love.  I'm glad its finally working out for you.  I had fathers, uncles, grandfathers who all worked and stepped up to fulfill their obligations and responsibilities to their communities, their country, and their families.  This is what your dad was trying to tell you.  I'm glad you heard it.
You showed respect for your Father, listened to his critique.  He showed you patience and kindness to have that conversation which isn't easy at all.  You and him found a balance, patience and respect. When a son respects his father and a father is patient and loving to his boy,  the result it one of the most beautiful things in  the world.
I'm like your friend... but my dad walked away when I was 5 :/
Those who walk away from their children are worst of the worst no doubt about it, you’ll never be a good person in my eyes if you did that no matter how many charities you donated to
I think I would have turned out a much better man if I had a father
Well said...I would give all that and more to mine....if "she'd" let me...12 years now....crickets .... 😩👎🇦🇺
This brought me to tears as well. As parents, we don't want to see our children suffer--and any addiction is a silent suffering, a turning away from the world and pain. The world is so full of wonder and children so full of potential...devastating the lives lost to drugs, alcohol, gaming, gambling, etc. Glad you made it out.
The impact of parents on children is incredible. Many inappropriate behaviors come from a lack of love from a young age. Many children of celebrities stumble in life due to this.
Don't have to imagine, when you know exactly what he described
​ @John-ro2ir some people never overcome the consequences, only a few are able to. we must never underestimate the tragedy
Yeah, and as a parent, I worry everyday about whether I might be breaking my children, as much as it is the last thing I desire.
​ @phineas1112 is it that impacting ? I'm just asking, it could be, but tell me
@ Not anymore, but it might be a problem if you don't get over it.
My family were always there for me, some people mess things up for themselves.
 @CrankyNebelung  President Trump living rent free in your head! smh 🤭
Sometimes, that's this world that messes you up, sometimes you mess yourself up too.
No, not always, unfortunately.  I had a very nice lovely family, always had food in the table, education, if I wanted something I just had to say it, I had friends as a kid, always laughed and made everyone laugh with my jokes and personality  Im now 25, I haven't had any friend since I was 12, never had a girlfriend or not anything close to a girl or woman, never had a real job, Im still not knowing what to do or study, it's been like this since I finished high school, my life hasn't changed or moved anything at all in 7 years.   I've already wasted half of my life just because I spend too much thinking what can I do with my life, while not living it. I wish I had Jame's attitude, being able to hold on for so many years it's a very brave thing.   Im already giving up, and it's not about being sad or depressed. There's just no point living if im just a useless weight for society, and even for myself.
Not necessarily. You can become broken even with a loving family and friends.
Family or bullies, a woman, a man, the system,many things can mess people up
yes, I can relate with this gentleman James, cuz my childhood was like his. But i don't think he is a "failure", i think he's just saying this out of modesty. And what else? If you think that the "winners" in this world are called Trump, Musk, etc and things like that, then being a failure is something good or desirable.
 @frank-b8s2e  Never give up. Just think about what you enjoy doing and that's about it. Society doesn't mean anything. You live inside of yourself. Always. LISTEN TO LIFE...
And they messed it up because they were broken by their parents. It's a very sad cycle that my family lives with and it's a blessing/curse that there's really no one to blame, but my family is proof that the cycle can be broken down a bit with each generation.
 @frank-b8s2e I don’t know what to say, but I read your comment. Best Wishes my Friend.
good comment, ultimately everyone is wearing a mask to 'fit in'
This man thinks he could have been so much. When in reality he's exactly what we need more of. Well spoken, intelligent, and understanding.
1:55 I see this photo, and as a new father, it brings tears to my eyes because I see the 4 year old James in his eyes, and it makes me so sad. I want to give him a hug
James..... you are absolutely not a failure! You are humble, honest, emotionally intelligent and a sensitive human being. I wish I could be your friend and I hope that someone who sees this video, recognizes you as someone who lives close by, and makes contact. If they do, they will be a very lucky person indeed. You have so much insight and wisdom. Bless you. XXX
I'm 65, live alone, have little money but love my life and am grateful every day.
I can’t tell you how many people are just begging for an opportunity to talk to someone but can’t take being rejected once more, so they’re cold as a defence mechanism.   Be kind, even to those who are cold. Your life will improve and you just might save others.
I'm 43 yrs old, I make a purposeful effort to smile at everyone I see. I see many weary faces on strangers. Some smile back, most ignore me but I know inside they felt my warmth. I wish them well.
I’d go for a beer with this guy seems like a top bloke
Holding my sick two year old while i watch this. Among other lessons from James, this is an appreciated reminder to me that my job is important.
Boy do I relate to this man. I'd give a million bucks to talk to him.  God bless you sir, and it's my deepest wish that you find peace within yourself!
James, all of us are "could-have-been" men. Regardless of your level of success on the material plane, everyone has regrets and things they missed out on. Granted, some more than others, but, ultimately, very very few people can look back and not identify things they could have done much better. Don't be so hard on yourself; I don't know how old you are but you look great and have a sharp sense of style. God bless.
A soul trying to reach out, like a dust particle dancing in the light, trying to collide into another dust particle. On this fateful day, he bumped into you, and your lens immortalized his smile, with a hint of sorrow, for the whole world to feel and resonate.
When he said his mother never hugged him, i burst out crying, because I could immediately feel my mom's warm hugs.  My mom hugged us morning noon and night telling us how much she loved us.  I could never ask for a better mom.
"The greatest failure that ever walked on plat Earth". Sorry, Sir, that title has already been taken. I hear every word you say echoing in my heart. God bless You, Sir.
A man with the gentle grace and insight that James has could never ever be a ‘failure’ and according to who???   If there were more men with the spiritual humility that he possesses and less of the egotistical , selfish and ruthless materialist ‘successes’ ,  Humanity would be in a better place than it is at present.
As you age you start reading a person by their eyes. James has got kind, sad and lonely eyes. Yet they're full of genuine warmth and understanding. God bless you James!
It’s extremely shocking to know that people like him are in the millions and yet if they all just had a spot they could gather and meet and greet I think some hearts could be healed.
Most of us have been here at least once. He's profoundly self-aware, sad, and lonely - which is why he's so open and honest about his feelings. I really hope he finds the connections he deserves.
A true gentleman and a sad soul but i see the fire of wisdom and honesty in that man. Great fashion style.
sometimes thats how much it takes to get un-entangled, calm and sincere, which is ideally the goal of life
No the reality is that society doesn't care how well-spoken, intelligent or understanding a person is. If a person isn't earning good money, or doesn't have a job that helps other people make good money, then society as a whole couldn't give a shit about that person and will view them as a loser. Being kind doesn't pay the bills, which is all anybody cares about these days.
​ @Jijohann  I read that people are awful judges of their own character.  That we need to be with others to remind us who we are.   It's one of the reasons why dumb people are often arrogant and narcissistic and intelligent people are often riddled with self doubt and feelings of inadequacy.
Well and the entire point of OPs comment was that really, actually, what this guy is, is what is valuable
@ Yeah, and it'd be great if most of the world felt that way, but they don't. Push comes to shove, people will ALWAYS put themselves first, and usually that means making as much money as possible by whatever means are available to them. End of the day, people only pretend to give a shit about nice people like James out of politeness, but ultimately the thing that matters most to everybody is money, and anyone who says otherwise is either naive or delusional.
 @Light.Sleeper_YT  I wish that I could disagree with this worldview, but you speak truth
Me too. I saw exactly that and I wish that no child would ever have to feel this way, it breaks my heart.
I know exactly what you're feeling brother, my daughter was born 5 weeks ago (my 1st child) & when I look at her I literally cannot comprehend how a parent could look at their child & not feel a desire to make them feel loved and safe and cared for. I would NEVER treat my child how my mom treated me & my sister or how James' mom treated him.
Haooy to hear you are happy.  Most people are never happy with their lives even if they have nore than they need.   You sound like me.  I am naturally a loner. I am happier when i am alone or just with one person.   Media tries to tell people they cant be happy unless they have lots of friends and a big family.
And that’s the key. It’s HOW you think that makes you happy or not.
right, I had then every day in the pharmacy where I work... coming for a bit of talking,  that I enjoy with.
I see and appreciate people like you. A small kindness, like a sincere smile, can have a meaningful impact on people.
I think I do the same subconsciously. When I see the sorrow around me my smile fades though. I still try.
 @JoyBlissWonder  Not so much. Billie Eilish named her first record "Don't Smile at Me" and explained that how it makes her feel bad because the move is out of place on strangers an tin-eared socially; she doesn't like it. I see why.
I do that too, but because I am a woman, I only do that to other women.
 @trains889  it makes my day when women smile back or smile first. It's usually children or pensioners who are the most friendly. No expectations, no attraction, just random kindness. Everyone wins.
If your smile is genuine, know that even though we don't smile back, because we're unable to, it helps that you do it
 @trains889  of course not, but you'd expect a man to help you when in distress.
I've been very nice and respectful my whole life and I can feel the culture trying to push me to be cold and self centered every day.  Some days I walk around with a chip on my shoulder because I am too tired to be nice to people, especially those who may want to erase or deny other's existence.  With that said though, I can't imagine everyone's politics just in passing and it is such a burden to carry the weight of the world in your conscious all day.  This comment for whatever reason resonated with me, and I am going to keep my head up and keep building others up.
I love that.  I do that too, especially when I'm feeling low myself.
 @erica6825  that's so wonderful. The world needs more of that right now!   I have a few friends that are as sensitive as I am. We call each other when we are feeling down or stressed with life and do "friend dates" with food, long conversations and warm healing cuddles. It's amazingly therapeutic.
 @tylerfedeli2004  I feel it too. How did we lose our way as a society? I watch clips from the 90s and 2000s (where I spent my teens) and it feels like such a great social time.   I have found people are friendlier online, while cynical in real life. It seems easier to make friendships online but in real life there is an invisible barrier people put up towards one another.   I choose to practice gratitude and kindness every day. When I get appreciation and warmth in return I'm deeply nourished from it.   I make a conscious effort to cut out the consumption of all things negative (corporate news, toxic social media, toxic people including family) and choose to live a positive life and keep space and energy for positive people.
I do the same thing, I’m 23 I know everyone is struggling with something. There’s so much pain I just want to help
Absolutely, Rachel! 🙏 Profound gratitude to you in every child (future adult) on earth's name; your job will leave a good human being in the world, thus will make of it a better place 💖🙌💐⚘️
Being a mum is the best and most important job in the world
The absolute most important job.  The one all others are marshalled around to protect.
I am putting my 2 year old to sleep while watching with headphones.. I am so blessed to have my son
Don't forget to teach them to strive for something. This is what James seems to regret. No career or direction leaving him broke with no friends as friends are superficial when young as you grow apart. Teach kids to build a life through career because only family will remain in the later years.
Ken Dryden, who was a goaltender for the Montreal Canadians during the 70s, interviewed his high school peers, many of whom had retired - not one person said they reached the destination they had aimed for when they were young. We set our course, we raise our sail, and the wind takes us off in its own direction - but we agree to the journey.
Mine didn't either... both of my parents were no more friendly than a plank of wood.
@Cyber_Kriss  I'm so sorry to hear that.  If you were here now, I'd hug you.
that's beautiful. wish I had such a mother, particularly back then. <3
 @jesusisapisces  Unlike you, I don't troll people.  I have the most loving mother.  I'm not bragging. I am just extremely lucky to have a mother like that.
My parents never did any of that.. I haven’t been hugged since 18.. im 28
My mother talked about loving us, but didn’t behave in a loving way.  It sticks with you…
you are very lucky to have had a mother like you did. And I bet you are a kind and considerate person
 @andrewevans7992  you will need to do some hugging (if you like to, do not be afraid to)
Beautiful man! I had a mother that never hugged us and although she was great in some ways I still miss a mother that showed she loved me.
Those traits usually come at an older age, when it's too late :P
 @jackshiraq575 sometimes those traits never manifest......so an older age can never be considered TOO late.
I hate to sound defeatist, but wounds like these never fully heal, especially if you’ve let them fester for decades like this man. A lot can be done to alleviate the pain, certainly camaraderie with similar people helps, but you can’t exactly change the past.
I'm 29 and have been in the same place since I was 16, been stuck in this rut of what could have been whilst also feeling helpless to change anything... the regret of losing time is brutal, once my parents are gone I'll be lost.
​ @ALGARIC  Often you cannot heal, but you can learn to move on and be happy nonetheless
​ @ALGARIC  heal, or deal? I think the latter is the one you need to work towards.
This photographer has the most incredible talents;  not just for taking pictures but his ability to gain the trust of complete strangers.  Amazing personality ❤
Absolutely love this man! If I lived out where he lived. I would definitely go and have coffee and hang out and he would have a friend. What a likable person.
He lacks motherhood love. Oh dear James, I hope you can find some contentment, love, friendships and relief in your life, godspeed!
I wish I could speak to James. He is much more than he thinks.
James, I could have said word-for-word every single thing you said.  You have lived the same life as I have, my friend.  And we had the same mother, too.  Thank you for sharing about yourself.  You made me feel less alone.  I wish I coud give you a hug, and receive a hug back from you.
Wow. Some people shouldn't be parents. They're incapable of love and the scars they leave last a lifetime. All the best to you James.
Here's to all of us who watch our dreams fade away and so we stand like a leafless tree, just standing, waiting... Dreams are the only thing that die without a sound.
I was stuck in the same cycle- attracting the wrong people, feeling frustrated and not knowing why. Book Red Vibration by Keezano gave me the wake up call I needed. It helped me understand attraction in a way I never had before. I made a few key changes, and suddenly, I started attracting the right kind of people. That’s how I met my best friend(now my wife), this book seriously changed my life🙏🏼❤️
I find it eerie how exactly he mirrored my own experience.  You (James), I, and countless others walk alone together.  Our value as individuals may not be obvious to us but as you proved here today, our existence matters to so many who will never know us personally.  Thank you for sharing.
I hope he's watching this.  And witnessing how many people think he's such a gem
James you are not alone ❤ My mother was distant unable to be loving & I too gravitated to warm loving families who had fun. I’m 72 & in many ways an under achiever & despite having four adult children and grandaughters they all live far away. Dear friends have died & I find myself very alone. You have a friend here in Pembrokeshire Wales Uk
I had a similar experience at a friend's house.  I saw his mother do the things that a mother should do and be affectionate to him to a degree I hadn't experienced with my own mother.  It didn't take very long in watching their interactions for the idea of "Why couldn't she be my mom?" began to surface in my head.  I went to his house several times that year, and it became more than a chance to have fun, but to live vicariously through their relationship of mother and child.  I came to regard observing their interactions as something coequal to my desire to have childish fun with a friend.  Then I would go home to my own family, and the stark contrast became that much more obvious because I, near the end of that year, fully realized what he had and I would never.  It became easier to dissociate from wanting those personal bonds than deal with the hope of having them.  Sure enough, nothing ever changed, only got worse, and now I am the adult I am.  Like what was said in the video, it isn't crying, it just is.  I don't even know why I just typed all this, it won't change anything anyway.
Not having a proper caring home at a young age, not having friends, and still be this well mannered and kind. It's inspiring and I'm amazed. People with far better starts in life could learn something from this man.  Thank you James for your honesty <3
Lovely man; we all live with the choices we make. Life isn't over, James. God bless you; you're not alone.
I don't think this man is useless. He teached us a valuable lesson that not everyone is aware of. Bless him hope he can find deep conexions never is to late for that.
Wished there was a longer version, would love to hear him talk more about himself
So sad that we place value on ourselves by what we achieve and not because of who we are.  James has so much value and is such a delightful, creative soul.  I hope he realises how much he contributes to the world just by being himself.  God bless you James and thank you Chris for what you do.
He just  poured  his heart out to a stranger and strangers on YouTube.
Aaaawww give this man a big hug if you ever see him again.
Thank you so much! Such a lovely comment, and your appreciation is not taken for granted. Sending you lots of love.
Same here. Some of us just get landed with the rough side of life as far as relationships are concerned while others just get everything they could ever dream of.  Good luck to you.
Same here.  I wish that more people feeling like that meant it hurt less.  It doesn't, but there is something in the feeling less alone that is a touchstone.
Oh, y’all. I’m sending a hug to everyone in this thread ❤ I grew up in foster care, so I know how that is. But I’m telling you from experience that is doesn’t need to remain so.
Im so sorry for all the people that dont have the opportunity to feel the love of both parents. I send you some hugs from germany.
There should be an organisation that allows people to connect who have been through similar things.
Same. I also recently realized I have a real hard time making friends and trusting people. I think it also steams from having a mother with controll issues, endless depression, and other psychological issues. Shes like a drowning person that will bring you down if you try and help. She has completely zapped me of energy and i feel like she transfered all her fear, sadness, and mental issues to me. Makes me so angry now thinking i could've had a mother that was normal or at least contributing to family someway, but she is always a complainer, a taker, and emotionally manipulative.
What if there's a way to get these two in touch so they can have a drink together?
I have also struggled for years with overwhelming thoughts of failure and lack of self worth, so I really connect with the video and these comments. I’ve been on quite a journey, and I’m getting there, but not there yet. The thing is, these are just thoughts and perceptions, made worse by habitually comparing ourselves with others we consider “normal” or “successful”. The thoughts are meaningless and don’t define us, but they often have a long history and deep roots which make them hard to shift. I have had many rounds of CBT therapy which has been useful and educational, but I eventually slipped back into old ways. The big change for me was incorporating mindfulness into my daily life and becoming more aware of what I think. Becoming a “watcher of my thoughts” rather than a ”victim of my thoughts” has had a profound effect on my happiness. Really recommend this to others in the same boat.
Live now, not in the past. Forgive and let go of bitterness. Free yourself from the lies you keep on holding on to, in your mind and heart. You are the one that is the key to change, you need to take the step. If you don't do anything different, it will stay the same, because there is no change. If you keep on proclaiming the same things as the man did over your own life, that is what you reap, as you constantly sow it. What are the lies you believe in? Figure those out, write them down, and do what you can to change them. As words have power, start proclaiming and believing something else. Who says loneliness is a truth? Or that why doesn't anyone like me? Who says those things, if not the voices in your mind? What do you do to change that? You can go head first to deal with the issue. That is a challenging road. But ask yourself, what is it that you desire and want? And what can you do about it? Else you will continue down the same road until you die. You don't need a pat on the back and a hug of sympathy, you need action and decision and steps of change, encouragement to move and encouraging support.
You are not alone. I have the same story as well. When somebody wants to love me, I got anxious and run away. When somebody ignores me I can‘t bear the pain. It is just really screwed up, and my mother didn’t have the slightest idea about what she did.
Turn to God. Jesus Christ loves you, knows you and knows your burden.  If you seek truth and seek God your burden will be lifted. I grew up in mental isolation as well. Now, with Christ, I am more comfortable being alone than around people.  All of your burdens can be lifted.  Those who suffer greatly due to the coldness of this world, and seek God regardless will have all of their sorrow paid back in full; exchanged for joy and peace.  I must say that there is steps. 1. Disregard anything you’ve heard about God or Religion, and seek Him for yourself. 2. Know in your heart that even though the suffering and isolation is immense, God has a purpose for your life. 3. Never stop seeking.  Set your eyes on earthly things and you will become full of the burden of earth. Set you eyes on heavenly things and peace will fill you.  God bless you all,  Amen
May Allah heal your hearts and get you closer to Him
Couldn't agree more. And those who don't have a parental instinct or drive or need, should steer clear of being parents. Bad for the kids & bad for them.
True. But if you want a dog and go to the dog's home, there is a thorough vetting to make sure you are suitable to have one!
Some people have no choice in that… of course that’s no reason to treat your child badly.
 @md61211  the issue is that the better parent you would make the more you wouldn't want a kid because you actually understand all the complexities and sacrifises that need to be made, the worst people to have children just make em with 0 tought and when they realise how hard it is they stop caring
if you dont give birth to dreams, they dont have to die. Constant, consistent suffering is better than a vicious circle of always hoping for something better and the suffering that follows again and again and again. Because hope kills. Just stop to have dreams and drown in the void of a never lived life.
@1armeddrummerinaprisonrock244  alas dreams are born with us. We have no saying in that.
Funny that you wrote that and booze/drugs are the ultimate dream killer in both senses of the term. It literally fucks up the part of the brain that makes you dream in your sleep. Dreaming when sleeping is what heals you and gives you rest. That's an odd little real-life metaphor that just went through my mind. Stay off drugs and alchohol kids.
 @Gu1d-0  you  are talking about soemthing else completly... I never even tried Drugs or gambling I take only occasional drinks. as for your advice for the kids, I second that.
James and I must have had the same mom.  And yeah, it echoes down through your life.
Same. I also recently realized I have a real hard time making friends and trusting people. I think it also steams from having a mother with controll issues, endless depression, and other psychological issues. Shes like a drowning person that will bring you down if you try and help. She has completely zapped me of energy and i feel like she transfered all her fear, sadness, and mental issues to me. Makes me so angry now thinking i could've had a mother that was normal or at least contributing to family someway, but she is always a complainer, a taker, and emotionally manipulative.
Just now i was thinking that about myself and BAM...i stumbled upon this video. 35 yo and im a complete failure.
same here. my mother was kind-hearted but was a very anxious type due to her mother being a narcissist. my mother died after several years of cancer. 1/3 of my life was about this. while everyone lived their life, went on holidays, started a family, i had to work hard because of no parental support and then to bury my mother and whatnot. i thought i had friends but none of them understood my situation and distanced themselves. now i don't even talk to people. no friends, no relatives, no job, all this in the poorest region of europe. i went to uni, i speak languages, 10+ years of work experience, certs, hobbies and talents...all will disappear like tears in the rain.
 @БагердзюцуБаныка  Perhaps.  But I think the realization that so many people think he's awesome can motivate him to break out and create more validating experiences that grows self confidence and nurtures a youthful spirit.  I think that is worth something.  And yes, a man perhaps has agency, but the salvific domain belongs to someone outside ourselves.  At least that is what I believe.  I hope you have infinte bouts of temporary pleasure yourself, thereby  making it permanent.  God Bless
 @sankumsachs4289  especially an older fella who probably think poorly of internet culture and such. might warm his heart a lil.
This not having friends thing, let me add a little bit to it. I am myself from big family, too many siblings to have much of an attention and father, even tho was providing, was an absolute dick, no role model what so ever. All growing up on a countryside, going to small school etc. Everyone wants to like the same music, same stuff on tv, same type of clothing, hair etc. You try to be a little bit different and here you are the outsider in a small place with no other outsiders pretty much.  In my case, this kind of experience with limited amount of people to choose from as friends, and idea of not having friends rather than having friends within this weirdly uniform, blunt and unoriginal tribe. Life goes on and I become adult, move to another country, meet and become "friends" with new people from new nationalities, we work in industry where we live and work together so we get close, but it just happens naturaly. Once our lives move on I struggle to be able to keep such contacts and generally know how to in fact have a close friendship   So after all, learning this skill as 35 years old is kind of too late, I am very friendly, people enjoy my company, but we do not move past certain threshold. We will have fun, be silly, be genuine, show true colours, but I will never be able to use that foundation to be able to express deeper emotions to such person. Even my to my wife to be frank.  Afterall, life is good, friend would be good, but either this growing up thing messed it up or my personality traits unable me from being able to get all of those relationships from 3/5 to higher emotional connection
Despite the worst of circumstances we can still become the best of people. It is always up to us.
I think he's right...he under achieved according to his talents [well take his word on it] so has major regrets. Seems to not have had much support at home which is case for lot of people in this situation. I know I envy friends whose parents made sure they had proper education and grounding in reality rather than religion.
 @MindbodyMedic  It sounds like it's been a tough road for him.  I just hoped he knows he is valuable despite what he has or hasn't achieved.  Thanks for your reply.
That's a great comment! Achievements are overrated. Relationships and a life well-lived, are much more important.
This man’s worry of living up to society’s standards has boxed him into his own prison. He 1000% has the wrong viewpoint and it’s the reason for his self loathing.   I absolutely DO have empathy for where all this came from. It’s a vicious cycle. Just wish the man stopped caring what others thought
 @mikemcnamee6030  If he stopped caring what others think, he wouldn't care about what you have to say. So, which is it? Do you want him to heed your advice or do you want him to ignore what people like you say about him?
I see a therapist periodically, and we talk about those concepts and how I've had trouble with perfectionism. He told me there can be a positive form of perfectionism and achieving, but whether you're a perfectionist or not the important thing to do is to make sure you love what you do in life. In a sense self improvement can be like putting the cart before the horse where you miss the whole point of achieving which is enriching your life right now by doing something good, something that gives you meaning. Chasing after money can become an obstacle to actually having a successful life, and that kind of thinking can make you actually give up rather than being a positive motivation.
Being alone and having little to no contact, physical or otherwise, is no joke. It does things to people, none of it good. So for someone to still be this caring and friendly is in every way a miracle.
All of these are not only lovely videos but they are like a therapy and are vey helpful. (I'm 74.)
I hope this encounter leads to something positive for him as other encounters have on your channel.
The pain of regret. You can see from his eyes how he really wants to go back in time & correct his mistakes.
Such a real person hugs to everyone who feels “ could have been “. We need more honest people like this to say how they really feel.
Be kind - for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle - Plato
And just like that he left a longer lasting, deeper impression/legacy appreciated by a wider audience than I ever will. ☺
My dad became an alcoholic when I was kid so he was completely absent and my mom never hugged or said "I love you" to me.  I thought I was adopted as early as I can remember, because I noticed how loving other parents were when they picked up their kids in kindergarten, that thought is literally one of my earliest memories of life that I can recall. I did ask if I was a mistake, to which she candidly said I was and when I responded "I knew it" she said "but your sister is too!" as if that made it better...  If you grow up and are not wanted by your parents it will permanently fuck you up for life, no matter if you're rich or poor, in the end loving parents are one true wealth in ones childhood to have.
You can feel the sadness in James, bless him. He should try and publish his plays!
This man was brutally honest opening his heart for you and the camera. I send for him a big hug ❤
I don't think you're a failure James, your self-awareness, resilience and kindness are traits money cannot buy
So relatable. I hope he finds peace in his heart. He is wonderful.
He is not alone.Tell him,i am with him!I knew his feelings very well!What a beautiful man!
He has a gorgeous face.  Life isn't fair but he's not wallowing in it.
It’s really difficult to make friends as an adult - especially if you’re an introvert.  I feel this deeply.
A mother made of ice. Not tactile, no hugs, distant. I remember that. I’m 63 and I realised long ago that’s why Ive always struggled to show my genuine warmth to certain others. It holds you back in life. Thanks mum.
Just find him again....talk to him more....let him open up more and maybe help him somehow cause he deserve love and attention ❤(I'll pray for him 🛐❤️)
Such a beautiful soul. Chris, you captured so much emotion in James’ photographs. I wish someone could take a look at his plays, to help him find his purpose🙏🏻🙌🏻🙏🏻
So many in his position end up going down very dark paths in life, male loneliness is literally no joke and can drive people mad. He has all my praise for managing to stay positive towards others despite how his life went.
 @curiosity19  Right. 45 years old. I wish I had the energy of my 20s.
Regrets are the spiritual equivalent of balls cancer. It is so fucking USELESS yet one of the hardest thing for your mind not to dwell upon. What was that quote? The mind is a great servant but a terrible master? Tru dat
God wanted you, otherwise you wouldn't walk this earth. And guess what? He loves you deeply. Even if he throws curved balls at you, it's for you own good, for your soul to grow and learn. One day you'll understand the meaning of it all, and you'll make peace with the souls of your father and mother. Remember, at the end of the day, the most important question you can answer to is : "How did you love in this lifetime ?".
when you experienced invalidated as  a kid, it really damages ones self esteem and its really hard to be successful
See, you're doing it, too: critical, dismissing James' thoughts and experiences about himself.
some people have tons of life experience and no wisdom. there are so much worse failures than this guy.
It is easy if you make your ego aside of knowing everything a adult can but this is not truth. There is so much more even if you are adult you can learn from other and make friends.
I'm not saying to bé disagreable to anyone, but "I'm introvert so I can't" is a pretty dangerous way of rationalizing your own fear of rejection and how you deal with people.
 @sircrim8694  - I didn’t say I can’t. I said it’s difficult.
But James doesn't seem to be an introvert. Introverts always think it's so hard to make friends because they are introverts. That's very true. I am very extroverted and trust me it is still hard to make friends. I feel like sometimes people like you for just being there and that's what introverts do while I am a people pleaser who talks a lot and tries to convince people by how funny or interesting I am but talking a lot. I also ask many questions and want others to get to talk about themselves because I want to get to know them. I don't want to hear myself talking / I know myself. So don't get the wrong impression please.
“Introvert” is and always has been an excuse. To have a friend you must be a friend, don’t be a coward and put yourself out there!
@ - it’s interesting how you make assumptions.  I do put myself out there.  I have friends that have been my friends for 50+ years / they just don’t live near me.   You obviously aren’t an introvert.
I was also struck by how good those photos are. Really interesting.
Oh, James...it took incredible bravery to share such personal aspects of your life. May you be abundantly blessed. You have blessed hundreds of lives in a matter of 2 minutes.
James you have over 2 million friends in viewers and over 5 thousand friends in the comments. Im privileged to be one of them.
What a hero for being honest. I can totally relate. Life is not measured by money and things.
What a wonderful and honest man. He is very hard on himself, which I understand because of what he went through in the past, but I truly hope that someday he finds someone he can connect with and not feel alone. I wish him all the best.
He described how I feel about myself and how my life has turned out, word for word. I truly have a sense as to how he feels
As a former London Bobby I can sadly confirm that London is full of people like James.
I feel you James, I have been lost too... now I just try to be kind and helpful. I'm committed to giving to others. I hope you find Love and Friendship James:thanksdoc:🙏
James has the kind of introspective intuition that is relatable. I think his self awareness makes him more successful than he gives himself credit for. Nice pictures, BTW Chris.
There is nothing more depressing than waking up one day as an old man and realising you wasted your entire life. I could have been an amazing human being, but all I am is nothing. Just words on a screen soon forgotten.
I would absolutely love to read his plays…I bet they’re brilliant
I want to sit down with James, listen to him, and show him he matters.
Isn’t it incredible how so many people are alone and we think from the outside of they are doing well or dress well and they are lonely and possibly sad… You are doing a great job
The light in his eyes 🥲🫂 I wish him the love and friendship he always needed.
Damage done in early childhood can rob you of realizing your potential in life unless you acknowledge that damage as a young adult and do the work to heal yourself. If you are a teenager or young adult who was abused and / or neglected in childhood this is a warning to you. If you are an adult who has young children or plans to have children, this is also a warning to you.
I appreciate the honesty and humility that James shared; just imagine how many people around you at this very moment feel the same way that James does ; or worse! Be kind to everyone, because everyone has a story and everyone has feelings. Blessings to all!
Many of us feel like him. Loneliness can be devastating, but it makes it easier for us to know ourselves deeply. We are valuable for who we are, not for what we have. And that man is immensely valuable, like all of us. Do not underestimate the capacity of human beings to change their own reality. We must have faith in ourselves. May peace be with you.
London can be a really good place for lost souls though. You can have anonymity, space, niches to explore yourself and interests. Dublin: not so much. Ditto Belfast.
That's so interesting.  I can imagine having to be an observer of humanity being quite illuminating.  Maybe you should write a book about your experiences?   I would definitely read it.
I'll never forget you, in fact, I'm gonna screenshot this comment and save it 😎
i will also screenshot this comment   keep fighting brother!
Its never too late. Go volunteer, help neighbors with something, help out at church. Helping others even in small ways is often not forgotten. I will never forget those that helped me when i needed it, and now look to do the same whenever the opportunity arises. Its more important to me than work or hobbies. It makes even the hard days worth it. Its never too late friend, sending love
this is what hell is. the unbeing, the failed promise of a soul.
I dont think you wasted anything. Life starts after death with Jesus Christ my friend. But i understand you i have also felt the same
@IramCoercere  Christianity is not anti-life in any sense. It gives us the right sense of urgency and truth to guide us through this life in the only way worthwhile, the one that doesnt end up being a life "chasing after the wind", as its said in ecclesiastes. Yet, it is true that "what we do in this life echoes in eternity". It should inspire us to know that we could not do worse than going to hell. It sounds contradictory, but it is inspiring because it motivates us, even if we wasted six decades, to live the seventh one with purpose, treating life as it is, a battle for eternity.
 @DemacratikEsp-qt88  it means nothing coming from you, but go for it.
No you’re more than that! You are a child of God! Jesus loves you so much, you’re enough, you’re loved, you’re cared for.
Except..what makes you different from Elvis or a ''great painter''? many of the great people of the past would do ANYTHING to be able to sit in a room and talk with random human beings on the internet and just be a normal healthy person.  let's say you were a master musician, good at sports, you made 3 great movies etc. At the end of the day you're still just a guy, and the guy next door doesn't even know you're some ''GREAT HUMAN BEING'' For all you know the neighbour or guy you walk past in the store has had  all sorts of adventures and accomplishments, thinking you ''wasted'' your life is a trap, Life is complete the moment you're born, think about that, Just you being a complete being that went from being bacteria to now be able to think and create and build, You are already special and you don't have to be a god.
everything is relative I guess. Time sure is. I'm in my twenties and already feeling the soul-crushing existential dread of being a fuckin failure.
 @Gu1d-0  try not to be too hard on yourself brother, life’s just beginning for us!
Excuse my tangent but I think we should forgive ourselves. There are so many possible paths one could take. Obstacles, or its other extreme, choice paralysis, are both headwinds your sailboat comes up against, and not all of us are great sailors. This particular chap had to deal with a lack of intimacy from a primary caregiver, and as someone who didn't have that issue, I can only begin to imagine what havoc that wreaks on your psyche.   Also in the West at least, due to the influence of film and popular culture, we expect our lives (or perceived chapters of) to reach a certain denouement, so to speak. In reality, while we all hopefully grow, our 'story arc' is more likely to be some kind of messy meandering, coupla squiggles maybe, even a loop-the-loop for some. It's something I've decided to start reminding myself, whenever I get existential.
​ @Godschosen1_  this kind of proselytizing is painful to receive as an abandoned child too. i remember always thinking it simply meant that god didn't find me worth protecting. just be mindful of what you say.
 @rinnachi  sorry I want to understand, because of the pain you felt, you felt like God didn’t think you were worth protecting or from someone saying “Jesus loves you?”
 @Godschosen1_  yeah, if a child is suffering greatly and they're told that god 1) is all-powerful and 2) "loves" them, it can feel a lot like it means the child isn't worth god using his power to prevent the suffering. of course this is theologically very simplistic--but neither has complex theology resolved the problem of evil. "if god loves me, why did he let these horrible things happen to me?" is a reasonable question to ask.
 @jonirischx8925  -  I’m sorry kindness  or empathy apparently equates to “pity” in your view.  Thanks for telling me what he “needs” though; it’s cool you know him well enough to speak on his behalf.
@ALGARIC  no just accept the reality, inbuilt the confidence , take care of your health and finances and boom that's how you suppose to be
sounds like anxious-avoidant attachment. Most of us with that do wind up alone and with few friends.
Holy shit. I think I figured out what is wrong with me. That makes so much sense with the chasing women thing and not getting affection from his mother.
James, if you ever see this - you are not a failure.  You’re a kind and gracious person and it’s evident in how you carry yourself.  Blessings to you!
Ironically, he seems to be one of the more interesting and vibrant characters I have seen in these kind of clips. Of course we can sense the sadness and resignation and even regret but he seems to still be full of light. Oh James, it is never too late. You seem like a kind and reflective sort of person, anyone would be lucky to have you as a friend.
I would be this man's friend in a heartbeat.  It would be my absolute pleasure.  That's the real tragedy.
God bless James. A mother's love is so important. We don't realize how important. As a mother, I wish I could give James the hug he always needed <3
I was the second greatest failure that ever walked the earth. You're not alone James. Everything will get better eventually.
I understand this man better than some members of my own Family.  Many Blessings to you James, you are not alone.
If you trawl through the miriad of lovely and instructive comments below, from people he doesn't know from the four corners of this earth, you will find two things, the guy is NOT alone on this planet, other people can relate to his plight, the second is the great love from other folk he has never met wishing him well, that is priceless..............
My mother was a narcissist, so that meant no contact, no interaction, no communication, and definitely no love. The only time she acknowledged me was to say something nasty to me or embarrass me.
Childhood trauma, it truly shapes our future, a message to all parents and parents to be, you have a great responsibility, do your best to get it right, love and patience is your most powerful tool, and god sacks don't use the cry it out method 🥺 God Bless you James❤❤❤
Ive been through horrible things as a child,  but like james, im upbeat, and talk with a sense of optimism.    Id like to be james' friend.
That's sad on many levels. What impressed me most is that although his relationship with his mother undoubtedly had a profound effect on his personal traits, he takes responsibility for what he deems as his failings. I don't think he was looking for pity either, just having understandable regrets about what could have been. He'd be an interesting man to get to know & absolutely someone that would value a new friendship.
James really gave to us a master class about living. Don't let the time pass.. Do what u want to do, even that fells impossible. Just do it. Better get older and have knowledge that we try, then get older without trying anything
There are so many of us in that boat. He isn't alone.
He just needs some social life, join a group, visit a library or ask at a local community centre if they can help with any writing groups? He has such a good heart ❤️   Hope he figures it out and gets those plays published.
Moments like this show that every single person is special. So many humans out there.. so many stories. Imagine yourself and multiply it by over 8 billions...
​​ @oliverrichardson800 When someone has insecure avoidant attachment, they find it harder to create a good relationship because emotional they avoid it and cant bring themself to a place where theyre comfortable, its lonely.
He was chasing the love he wanted from his mother everywhere else.
I agree.  The fact that he is honestLy proud of writing his plays is a mighty achievement indeed. He is very unsparing in his appraisal of himself and I imagine for him to have pride in his work means A LOT.
 @faces_of_japan  Well I'm no psychologist but I'm sure you're correct, it's a bit more involved than just his relationship with his mother.
Deep down he prefers to be alone i think .I certainly do now at 72y .
I was abused by my dad from 5-16 and now I'm 57 all alone. Never had a girlfriend let alone an intimate relationship. No steady job, no house, no family. Just a restless existence.
I wish that James could understand that he's not a failure. He's feeling the effects of complex PTSD caused by childhood neglect. He's a survivor and seems to be very honest, reflected and likable.   I can 100 percent relate to his story. I shared mine as an animated short film on my channel.
To have reached the autumn of your life & still be able to get out & about & be able to engage in conversation intelligently is achievement enough. We always want more than we have.
I totally relate to this guy. I can already foresee that I'll be equally alone at his age.
im 34, been living hidden from lfe for 15 years now. I hope I can end up as good as him, or even just make it to his age in his condition. Thank you for enganging with him and uploading this.
This man is not the only one to be alone. There are millions like him...
Man .. this hits different: his honesty and raw assessment ..  We all need some compassion and love.. even if it’s only in the early stages, when we’re young. Dear humans, let’s be gentle and kind with one another..life is too short not to.
This video really struck a cord with me, i feel i am following such a similar path.
Every family has that one person who will break the family financial struggle, I hope you become the one😊
The bit where he describes looking at his friend's mum showing affection, thinking I wish she was my mother.  Heartbreaking.
Beautiful man, wonderful spirit.  He's a success in my eyes.
Too many people feel just like James. There’s a community out here just waiting to embrace you, James. Take a deep breath and walk toward it.
Wow - what a gorgeous man.  How can we help him?  I get lonely too after losing my gorgeous wife 3 years ago, but I have a wonderful church group, a sister and kids who care.  However, this dear man has nobody, and what's worse, he is hard on himself and blames himself for all his maladies.  I'm stuck over there in Australia, but would love to be a friend to this man!
Thank you for sharing James with us. I am sure, like me, there are millions of others who can completely relate to what he shared. It was o nice the way you connected with him.
I don't believe in coincidence. You were absolutely supposed to encounter James this way. What a blessing raw honesty is. Thank you.
I'm 44 and similar. I'm making something of myself, I guess, as I'm working on a doctorate in clinical psychology. But I don't really have any friends and never really have. I've had a few so-so friends, but they were all friendships where I was doing all the work. And I have some people I spend some time with, but none of them is someone I can just call up when I need to talk or anyone who reaches out to me to spend time together. No husband, no kids, and no friends is incredibly lonely at time. I feel like I'm paying for my parents' mistakes and emotional immaturity, though I've spend thousands of dollars and time into therapy and healing, so at least I know I can connect with people. Now, at this age, however, it's just incredibly hard to find people who want to connect.
I know how tough this is... used to be in same mental state last few years. But everything changed after I started reading books on mindBloomery. Clear and calm mind makes everything possible. I stopped chasing perfection, made a plan and started chasing goals one by one. No stress, no anxiety. And now I find joy in almost every possible situation.
Like a cross between Dustin Hoffman and David Threlfall.   In a time when everything is face in your phone, swipe and on to the next distraction, it is so refreshing to witness a genuine conversation between a pair of complete strangers. Wonderful!
I'm sorry you went through that. I've always thought it strange that as a human you need a license to drive a car but if you want to have to children, go right ahead, no checks and balances, no courses.
heartbreaking man, hope you find help eventually, can't go through that alone
I am sorry fo what you have experienced. You have a lot to give. This could be your year. Visualise. Be happy. You are a good person. You know this. You deserve happiness.
you're a tough, brave person from what I can tell -- sorry you had to go through that, though. also, there's still time for you to find your tribe.
It's not restless existence, you lived in this live for 57 years, someone didn't even get a chance to be born or died young, and you were so lucky to burn, 1 in million chance that your mom got pregnant and gave birth to you, man, you still have your hands to write this comment, your eyes to see that video in color, somebody lived there hole lives blind or in wheelchair. Just appreciate live, we are human beings, not human doings, bless you.
I'm so sorry brother this Is really heartbreaking what you went through I hope God ( if he exists) fills that gap in his ways. Take care
Jesus Christ knows your burden and He can lift you to peace that you’ve never felt.  God bless you
...but life can always be better, you always have to think that. I'm approaching middle age and never had a girlfriend/wife, because of my arrogance, foolishness, egotism, narcissism, etc. Now i pay the consequences and i think it's fair. But then again life is never fair. This gentleman James looks (and i'm sure he is) like a very kind and sympathetic person, and yet he's alone. Cuz the world has never been just or fair. It wasn't meant to be like that.
Welcome to youtube where you can find youtube-psychiatrists putting out random diagnosis based on 2 min conversation.
Yes he is a failure stop making things up you don't compare what you are to someone else
​ @Sm0keddhany  You might be wrong, but I don't blame you.  This comment got super long, but I make an actual point and it's worth reading. Like you, I also dislike the overwhelming amount of diagnosing and self-diagnosing mental health conditions online, mostly because of how reductive and simply wrong it gets (Tiktok psychology), with people throwing out buzzwords and labelling everything under the sun as narcissism, borderline, OCD, AHDH and so on. However, there are 2 things to consider that are different from the typical scenarios of the above.  1. The video is 2 minutes long. I am sure that the gentleman in the video is very long-winded and takes time to arrive to his point (no judgement), so this might have been a 30 minute long conversation that was edited down to 2 minutes. Not the same thing as a 2 min conversation or a one-sided account of a situation you see on Reddit. We are able to get a lot of substantial information about James in these 2 minutes.  2. robotandcat8125 isn't talking about a condition that is severely overused (not yet, at least) in the mainstream. Complex PTSD is a very specific condition that gets easy to spot once you know more about it. And it's not as ambiguous and misunderstood as Narcissistic PD or Borderline PD. Here's an example - if someone says "I feel weak. My fatigue is making my every day worse", then you will see comments with diagnoses ranging from chronic fatigue syndrome to vitamin D deficiency to cancer and a bunch of other things, because it can be any of those things. If someone says "I talk to ghosts of famous ppl and currently Leonardo Da Vinci is helping me write a patent for an invention that will change the world", it wouldn't take a lot of effort to spot Schizophrenia or some kind of Psychotic condition under that same category. In this case, James is talking about specific things that are such telltale signs of CPTSD (complex ptsd) that it almost feels like a training video for psychiatry students. CPTSD is a confusing term for people who haven't dived into the topic, because it has almost no connection to PTSD and is a totally different beast. If PTSD is a broken bone from falling off a bicycle, then CPTSD is a chronic calcium deficiency condition turning bones into glass that happened because a person was locked in a basement for years.
 @erica6825  the original commenter is talking about Complex PTSD or CPTSD. CPTSD is totally different from PTSD and could be described as a maladaptation to prolonged exposure to trauma or multiple sources of trauma. I strongly encourage you read up on it, because it’s like a trauma response on steroids
 @erica6825  Yeah really... someone stubs their toe now and they got PTSD. People are ignorant they throw that word around lightly and 99% of people have no clue what trie PTSD is.
John 3:16-19  16 “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. 17 For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. 18 Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. 19 And this is the judgment: the light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil.
Heads up buddy, As long as you are working on yourself, being self-aware and actively try to improve yourself, you'll get there. Just don't lose patience. Took me 15 years as well and am only now starting to get a social life and not being reliant on wellfare, but life has never been brighter.
If that man says he feels alone he most probably is. Sharing a similar fate of being alone by other people hardly makes one less lonely themselves.
Everyone needs more than their salary to be financial stable. The best thing to do with your money is to invest it rightly, because money left for saving always end up used with no returns.
I’m looking for something to venture into on a short term basis, I really need to create an alternate source of income, what do you thing I should be buying?
Is she really that good? I have seen lots of videos about her
I have always wanted to trade but I never came across the right source for that but coming across your comment just gave me hope, how can I get into this correctly
I'm glad seeing this here today, your recommendation earlier this year was a blessing to my life and that of my family, I'm so grateful.
Where? Most people are just wrapped up in themselves and their own lives
 @janec1489  I recently started going to meetings for socially anxious people. This is quite close in the idea, social anxiety often ruins your life and kills your dreams.
 @ExecutionSommaire  Hi, yes, I did go to a group for that about 20 years ago. Although there were some nice people there, some were very prickly...
@ yeah you never get along with everyone in those, but it's possible to at least make a few friends maybe?
 @ExecutionSommaire  I went to one of these meetups for socially anxious people/introverts and it was incredibly stressful. No one was talking to each other just a lot of awkward silence. I felt awful after experiencing that.
 @YachtsOnTheReg7  Damn, sorry about that. Yeah I guess it's hit and miss for this kind of stuff. You absolutely need some people who "lead" the meeting and are at a stage where they have not much problem talking and making people talk, organizing activities etc (fake job interviews, presentations, ... that's the kind of stuff we do)
Hi there! This is Diego from Argentina 🇦🇷  Loved what you just wrote.
Don't worry James, there are millions of us just like you and God does not expect perfection, only society.....
He should look into volunteering. It’s a way to meet good people and helping others/animals makes you feel better.
We all love you James, such a brave and honest man, more people like him would make the world a better place 💯
Im 29 and have the exact same thoughts and issues as him. Its almost eerie. I have to take his story seriously and not let my life slip away. I will start a business and I will make friends and I will make a loving family. Thank you James for slapping me back to reality and showing me how quick it goes by.
Let that sink internet folks. Not every life is basically road of successes, achievements and wins. These little, quiet stories or should I say - tragedies, are real.
I’m 32, a business owner, I have a fiancé who is the love of my life. I’ve let every friendship end over years and grew bitter. she’s my best friend who has shown me a second chance to come out of this fog. I always seemed as happy as most who are hiding depression and masking with a safe space, plenty of weed and a crippling nicotine addiction. I’ve clouded my judgement since my youth blocking out past traumas. We’ve got this James   It starts with being kind ❤
This is one of the reasons religion is so important to me. On a superficial level — it’s a community. On a spiritual level — souls/beings carry an intrinsic worth that is apart from any worldly achievements & supersedes them in importance.  The one being is as precious in his sight as the other.
Bro reflects me in different way. I have small businesses. I have money. I have nice family. But I feel like I'm destined to be something much much greater. So I write. I create app. I paint. And I cook. Try to find my calling during these comfortable times.   After 5 years of investing in self-exploration and new businesses,  wife just told me one thing that opens my eyes completely.   There is no need for generational wealth as we didn't need it either. There is no need for fancy car that gonna get key the moment it leave the garage. Sometime, having a nice family and money to feed the family is enough.
Remember guys, never fail to try new things when you’re young.  Go and try things you want to do. Going to the club every weekend isn’t living life, remember that.
He’s very damaged. Same here. A motherless child. There are so many of us. Needs deep healing from God.
My mom is the same way. It has caused a life full of insecurity and fear of being hurt in relationships, trust issues, while also feeling strangely uncomfortable when in something stable and loving.
...WOW about 95% similar child abuse and of course THE consequences we carry all our lives
it always amazed me that you need a license to drive a car, a degree to build a house but no training whatsoever to raise a child.
James is not alone. I've come to understand that I also walk a very lonely road. Not because of others but because of my own deficiencies.  Here's a poem I wrote.  Life...... Our current state of existence Prolonged by our fear of the unknown
He said he’s penniless so he’d be better off doing paid work and meet people at the same time instead of volunteering.
 @alambyant  Money is absolutely worthless. People like him and me want to feel valued and be appreciated, money won't ever give you that. Volunteering is absolutely perfect to move your life in a better direction, if you are stuck in a similar position.
 @cadaverific3774  Easy to say if you got a roof over your head
@ If you are homeless you ain't concerned about how you're feeling bad about yourself, you're either concerned about how to get your next fix or survival.
​ @alambyant   Being around good people means more than money.  Sounds like he already has enough to care for basic needs, and he even bought a scarf!  The man needs a friend.
You’re 29. You have your whole life ahead of you. My best friend died at 30, that’s not even a short story. If your life ended today, everyone would say “oh they were so young” - write your own book, from this point on
​@DogShamen so what? The man clearly took the time and effort to try something out that he can look back and say it's his. That's all that matters
 @JaysonT1  well.... that's exactly what I said about children raised by incompetent parents. You are the perfect example.
 @copyright8291  by doctors, psychologists, philosophers, etc...we should have a college degree for parenting.
Credenitials do not guarantee competence, certifications don't make for certainties. Western culture up until 5 minutes ago and every other culture across history did well enough without parenting institutes.
@delftfietser  yeah right...just watch how well balanced is human kind...you are living in a bubble.
Through all his pain, in just that brief conversation, James showcased he was able to dress well, get outside, smile, have a unique appreciation for his new neckerchief, and connect immediately with another person. In my eyes, that is representative of a beautiful soul that one doesn't have without decades of hard work and growth. He should be incredibly proud of who he is, he seems like a wonderful guy
James! You have self-awareness and openness, a willingness to share. These traits can help you connect with others at a deep level.  Plus, you have a cool style, which shows a sense of individuality. You've thought about what to wear, how you want to look. People love that! You can make friends, truly. ❤
You should build a community with all these people you meet. I'm sure James has more great raw wisdom to share and if he were to sign up to your community he could do that and even make some friends along the way.
I really want to hug him and him and his inner child😢
I want to express my gratitude for the valuable insight shared here, which has significantly impacted my financial life. In just two months, I've grown my investment from $5,000 to a total of $250,000 today, and I appreciate the knowledge and information provided in this community
What an interesting man, would love to see those screenplays....never too late James, destiny is always on time. ❤ great video
When does one see such raw honesty?? He has the integrity to show his true self. That doesn’t make him a failure - it elevates him to a genuine and incredibly worthwhile man. We need a lot more James’s in the world. He speaks for millions of us that grew up in a sterile and unloving environment. It’s not a case of what we may have been. We are people who have chosen to be nothing like our mothers who had only enough love for themselves. They are the failure, not us. Don’t measure success in money, measure it in the things of true value - and that James seems to have in abundance.
This just shows you the importance of introducing people to Jesus. God bless this man, what a beautiful heart. This world is full of hurt and abuse 😔 I pray the Everlasting Father heals this man and gives him a better family than this world ever could have.
Despite having no jobs and people can no longer afford to live, people will be lining up to live off the government. Acquiring $53k  every month is indeed a blessing to me
I wonder how, as a professional you must, you move on from encounters such as this.
This is a story of child abuse and neglect and how it damages people.   Parents, show your children love. ❤
This is why people shouldn't have children by default or out of pressure. Have children if you know you want them, and if you're ready to be a parent.
many people don’t know about the forbidden book hidden laws of the game by eric cook—it changed my life
James!!! You WROTE two PLAYS!!! Most folks don't do anything remotely close to that in life!! You're not a 'coulda-been-man' you're an accomplished writer!!
2.1 million views in a month, all for just being himself walking down the street. Shout out to James and everyone like him. Hes immortalised now.
Sir James, thank you for making my soul a little less lonely by sharing your story. And thank you Model Stranger for the post and pictures.
Very well said. Keeping in touch with these very unique souls would be a wonderful idea.
Excellent idea, even if they just have a tea and coffee meet up weekly/monthly it would certainly alleviate that loneliness and build relationships with fellow humans.
100% agree and I am living that comment you made, thank you!
So, are you saying people with great friends and family aren’t genuine? That’s such a terrible comment. There are plenty of awful people who are alone because of their bad behavior and personality, yet you’re giving them the idea that their authenticity is the reason they’re alone.
​​ @Bastillemoteurs That's an odd reading of the comment, and an illogical conclusion. In my experience, people with many friends either have them because they are very authentic or because they are very inauthentic. It can be either way, and the comment did not say otherwise.
@ That's not an odd reading of a comment - I read it what it says. Stop hinding behind fictional complexities created by you.
​@Bastillemoteurs I think your conclusion from what he said is right.  He should have said some people are alone because they're authentic.
 @Bastillemoteurs  you're giving away more about your own subconscious with your reply than you realise
I did see a meme once that the fakest people have the most friends!
After 33+ years of achieving unique accomplishments, completing goals, and creating incredible projects, I've never once met anyone like me nor who truly valued their time with me. I choose solitude because I don't want to pander to phonies, fakes, flakes, and other nothing-burgers who simply go with the societal flow in order to "fit in". However, this does lock in the fact that I will d13 alone. 💪😎✌️ Personally, I'm looking forward to embracing it. No joke; I think that whatever lies beyond the void veil is far more meaningful than this terrestrial illusion.
​@Novastar.SaberCombat Well, everyone is alone, some less, some more, some much more.  Look for someone who needs you that you can care about, and the other things, while real, may matter a bit less.
 @Bastillemoteurs  Reading comprehension problems? You read exactly what I said. The rest of your nonsense comes from you.
The more powerful and original the mind the more likely he or she is too seek total solitude.
 @Bastillemoteurs agree. What the commenter is implying is that people with friends are unauthentic. They're bringing their own problems into this topic, which is the man in the video and not them
 @modelstrangers  I just bought you a few coffees to thank you for your efforts. I truly enjoy your channel and look forward to each and every video.  I feel for this man, because he feels he had so little in life.  I cannot relate as I've had a wonderful relationship with my mother my whole life; unfortunately, at 88, she is now living in an Assisted Care Facility, has Dementia and not longer knows who I am.  I wonder which scenario is worse.  Nonetheless, thanks again for sharing your excellent videos.
@ Thank you so very much, Mark, for your kind support. I’m sorry to hear about your mother. I hope she at least has peace and some semblance of happiness despite her condition which, I am sure, must be very distressing for you. It’s so terribly sad when age begins to change the people we are close to. My mother and father are both relatively healthy in their 70s, but I worry about the future. Peace and love to you, Mark. I hope you’ll continue to enjoy my videos.
If I may ask stock or crypto? How do you manage to earn so much? What are your strategies?
Entering the digital market is highly recommended, but expert guidance is crucial, by one Beatriz Helena is an excellent choice for beginners.
I know it's possible, so could you please explain how to do it?
Beatriz Helena sounds like a familiar name, I was introduced to her by my cousin brother who do liquidity trading stuff some time ago, but I never took it seriously, oh my goodness.
My husband and I have been working with her from Toronto for months, and thanks to her earnings, we were able to expand our real estate business.
I keep hearing great things about Beatriz; she must be exceptional. How can I chat her up asking respectfully?
After investing with Beatriz helena, we were able to pay off my husband debts and achieved some of our dreams, transforming my financial situation as a Brazilian living in Ottawa with my family.
Most people remain poor because friends and family discourage them from investing in digital assets, while the rich continue to invest and grow financially.
Trading offers investors many opportunities to build a high-yield portfolio despite our current economy. It's truly heartwarming to see my mentor receiving the recognition she deserves.
I appreciate the insight I saw here on this page, when I first started investing in ETH, my friends thought I was crazy, but my 6-figure weekly returns quickly proved them wrong in life you have to take the risk to make move to the top level or you remain in that level of fear of taking risk.
It's nice to see how much appreciation you all show for Ms. Beatriz Helena.
 @RosarioFontes-d2d  I refuse to be a spectator on this I’ve been looking for a way to get her handle thanks a lot
A coworker told me about this lady, but I didn't think much of it at the time. Now I'm curious to see what she can do, especially with the current economic crisis creating opportunities for newcomers to invest in crypto stocks.
I live in Australia and have been working here for a long time, yet I still earn a passive weekly income with Beatriz
Mention that I referred you to her, she has a verified account indicated by a blue checkmark.
 @GilbertoTiriba  thanks I'll review this to see if it's more suitable for beginners.
How please!? If it's possible i would appreciate if you show me how to get about it. I'm open for idea
Well, I picked the challenge to put my finances in order. Then I invested in cryptocurrency, stocks, through the assistance of my discretionary fund manager, Tammy Fowler
Wow🙄is this the same Tammy Fowler? That helps me with €24k investment "wow" such a small world
Talking of being successful, I think I'm blessed. If not, I wouldn't have met someone as perfect as Tammy Fowler. She has saved me a lot and a blessing to my family
She approached trading in a completely unique way, and I'm so puzzled  by her method. She just seem to have an innante understanding of this trading world. Without a doubt, I began with $5k and the rest is history
I'm 50 years old living in Germany Berlin, I made my first $200,000 trading with Tammy Fowler,  bought my first house last month can't be more proud that I'm right now, She is a Blessing to my family
Hello, how does this forex stuff work I think I'm interested and willing to invest heavily on it🙏please is there any media handle I can contact her?
YouTube can be very frustrating sometimes that's why I wrote it that way
Thanks guys for the info, I'm delighted I found this today am writing to  her at this time. I have drop a message hope she replies soon.
Funny enough a friend that I reffered to her received $120,000 profit after 2months  of investing..... I became jealous... Lol
Really? That is the message you wish to propagate from this profound video? That there should be fewer children? Merkowitz....hmm.
any chance you can put here the direct link for the book? Can't find a free pdf online.
James, you have an incredible look. You could be a model, an actor… anything you want to be! It is never too late. Look at Colonel Sanders (of Kentucky Fried Chicken)… he didn’t begin his chicken business until he was 65 years old!   Sometimes in life, the most difficult thing is to make a decision… to actually commit. I truly believe that you could find a woman who loves you AS YOU ARE. And I believe that you can still figure out what to commit to as a career, and then, make it happen.   This chance meeting w/Chris was your God sending you a message. You can still do almost anything you want to! Wishing you the very, very best in everything and much, much love!❤🤗❤
Such is life . How In modern life we forget the power of conversation. Life offers so many different possibilities, some are defined, some are prescribed, most are half chance. We can never know how the paths we choose will turn out. Beautiful reflections from James , tinged with sadness 🇮🇪🇮🇪
The strength and resilience of this man is incredible. Being and feeling so lonely in such a full world, being aware of it and still remaining there for so many years... is like having a constant war within us since we remember being people, accepting its consequences and misfortunes and continuing to move on... it's sad but also incredible!!
This was an incredibly mature and genuine encounter that demonstrated the common humanity within us all. I really liked this.
You’re not a failure mate, you’re an incredibly kind, warm and articulate human being.
what a lovely man James is, he just needs some love and a friend and was never taught to love by his own Mum, very sad. God Bless you James, we love you man.
He really needed this conversation 😢 Bless his soul for the honesty... he def on his way to rising up from the base, hole. To start with , he needs a genuine person by his side as a great friend and life coach, guide
Brilliant and sad ! So glad you stopped and chatted, you Sir are a true gentleman☘
James, you've got a friend in me! we'll probably never meet, but you aren't the only one in this world. Being 33 and feeling more or less the same, I thank you for your touching vulnerability on the spot.
I personally feel that James' life is similar to mine. While I become deeply obsessed with the damages of my childhood, I have been trying so hard to achieve the things I couldn't have back then, only to realize how much I've missed. This cycle drags on for so long that, by the time I realize it, I have lost so much time and suffered so much damage. And then, tragically, every painful memory starts hitting me every day. I can't forget the pain and hurt I've suffered in the past—the words people have said to me, the bad feelings I've experienced. All of it plays like a movie that suddenly resurfaces in my mind, making me suffer. Yes, and as James said, this is reality.
What a cool thing you do. You gave a voice to someone that didn't seem to ever feel like they had a voice.
May God bless you James. You've spoken on behalf of so many. I'll pray you find a kindred to walk with you for the rest of your days on this side of existence.
Wow that's so sad. Life is so short....he is getting old. We all should just make a little extra effort with everyone else....you never know the life/mental state or problems others are facing.
His words Speaks Volumes for Many in this Exact Situation❤❤❤  I want to see his plays.  Hats off to You James❤🫡❤
A very vulnerable man, it takes courage to be that honest. I pray he finds frienship, encouragement, & a personal relationship with Christ.
I relate to this man so much. Not having any close family relationship, being psychologically alone all his life, going off by yourself and never developing a proper profession or place in the world. I understand. Thank you for sharing the encounter.
Wow...That was a man being brutally honest. I hope he finds his peace. Great video. Thanks for sharing.
I was very moved by this. Single moments of openness, and action, unify us beyond our fleshly intimacy. Into a moment of clarity.
It never dawns on us that we would get to this age. You are not alone in this, James.
I felt exactly what you just shared with us. Thank you James.⌚🕊️
Bro is still standing. And communicating. And rocking a cool look. That $hxt matters.  Anyone who actually ends up old with a true friend is one of the fortunate ones. This guy might've missed out on that but life ain't over.
Kudos to this very brave man. The lessons learnt as a child unfortunately set his path and are  a very hard obstacle to overcome. A little love and nurturing can go such a long way in life. I can in many ways relate to how this feels, especially from a trust aspect. Thanks for sharing 👍🏻
He mirrors my own life,so I can completely empathize with him. I feel his pain👍
James, you are not useless, you know your weakness and you are humble, that’s already made you a better person than many, if not most people in the world. I hope you be happy.
Sad story. I hope people see this and offer him some warmth and connection.
So many of us feeling alone, I wish I could be this man's friend. James seems like an amazing person.
Amazing truthful story - I wish more people shared in this way! God bless this man, he does not know but he touched many people with his honesty!
This man has the dignity to open up about his failures and could-haves in front a stranger with a camera. It says a lot about him.
Just listening to his story makes me want to give my son a hug right now and tell him how much I love him and I’m proud of him
This is a powerful reminder of the worth in another human persons story. The wonderful willingness to use photography as a way into opening the opportunity for such sharing is fantastic. This is a reminder for humanity to re-connect... to reach out and make a difference in the life of others and your own life as well.
I feel that man. The "almost made it" guy. The "you were so close, and yet so far" guy. Pennyless, friendless, lonely. And in my case well deserved so. I can't even blame my parents, quite the opposite in fact.  They gave me all the support and opportunities in this world and I failed. Sometimes you're unlucky, sometimes you're stupid. I've been the latter.  For me it's too late, but if a young man is reading this, don't do what I did, ok?  Make the most of your chances in life, even if they're scarce. Don't be conformist. Don't go with the flow because it is the easy, efortless way. Plant your feet on the ground, roll up your sleeves and fight for your own stuff.  Don't become a burden for your relatives like I've become at 52.  In short, don't be me.  God bless.
Is it good to self pity ?  Once we reach 60 years it doesn't matter anymore. I appreciate this man's sincerity. I am sure many people have - I do - such bitterness on what might have happened and never did. I keep however thinking that looking forward is better than feeding regrets.
Im glad to have "met" James even through this short vid. I can feel his heart and its lovey. 💗
Sir James you are amazing .. And incredibly a well spoken man. Lucky to watch you on YouTube.. ❤ ''hugs to all to everybody who feels this could have beens... Hats off sir James
Wow this was so powerful to watch. What an incredibly honest man. He should see someone about his 2 plays which he's proud of - perhaps those are his calling.
I relate to this on a profound level as well because I was left alone a lot from a young age. I can only imagine the type of world his generation had when they were 4 and what disconnection would be back than, far before any internet and the type of networks there are today.  I explore these types of feelings in my short films, like Take Me Out, re:attachment, and Manic Man. I’d love to hear all of your thoughts on them.
I like that he’s honest and open about it. Authentic. That is something to be proud of right there. Many people just make up b.s about themselves and eventually start to believe it.
This is the life of many people. And many, many men. Bless you, James.
Sadly, the lack of motherly love.  Moms - Dads we have a deep responsibility. Pray for James - and those who suffer loneliness.
respect for this man who opened up to you for at least a few minutes, he showed a feeling that many might feel in their lives and might even give the courage for some to speak up. Dont bottle up your emotions
This video will immortalize him on YouTube and generations of children and there children will appreciate his honesty and learn from his lessons on life. ... . He is not a failure ❤ appreciate you good sir
My heart goes out to James. What a lovely man. I'd be his friend in a second, at least for the duration of a coffee or a meal, to chat and see if we had anything in common. Sadly, I'm in Canada. Can someone across the pond please give that man a hug? It may be his first & last.
James made me cry! Would love to give him tons of cuddles!❤❤❤
From now on until the end of the world. James is our spirit animal.
Find this man again and tell him that across from the screen one person is proud of him for being so genuine
You have achieved self awareness James. THAT is an accomplishment that is rare!
James your honesty makes you a bigger success than most people will ever keep being honest & doors will open my friend ❤
Oh James, you've brought me to tears.  I wish I could be your friend.  I understand in my soul how you feel;  I've had those feelings and experiences too, for similar (but not the same) reasons.  I hope you do find joy in every day, I'm sure you've touched a nerve with so many people - all lonely for different reasons.
Good reminder to be kind to yourself. Much love to you James. There are many wealthy powerful humans who lack the basic kindness you demonstrate here.
Honestly he has a look that could still work as an actor. Handsome chap. I wish him the best.
He's got such a heartwarming and beautiful smile my god .
Bless You, James. I didn’t grow up with the physical love and affection either. And I experience with open eyes, the effects of it now. Processing and working through them in therapy at 38
Poor man. I can totally identify with him. He seems like such a kind soul. I wish him all the best and hope he finds someone who he deserves. Also I bet he has achieved more than the average person. We all feel how he feels at times but we are not as brave and honest as him to admit it. James you have helped me and thank you for that and I’m sure you’ll help thousands more people. Stay strong buddy and god bless.
Being alone is tough, but it can teach you the most valuable things in life
Wow. He's so honest. Our society tells us we should be ashamed of ourselves if we are lonely or haven't accomplished what society tells us we're supposed to accomplish but he is so honest about it.
I am 100% growing up into this man. I'm 31 and I already feel all these ways.
Wow, incredibly raw and honest interaction.. My heart was really heavy listening to James.. I wish I could give him a bug hug.. I Hope he's OK..
God bless you James. I hope you encouraged him to write more. It's never to late ❤️❤️❤️ much love from Accra
All right we all need to meet James, he deserve friends!
Mr. James, hope you have better days that are kinder, more beautiful to you.
2:04 The beauty in James's eyes in these shots made me tear up. This has made me realise how fortunate I have been in life with my own upbringing and how much responsibility I have now as a dad. I hug my children daily, try to give them fair guidance and correction but mostly, try to impart a genuine non-judgemental love of people, each one of whom has a story - sometimes a sad one like James does. In a fast paced city (we are in Sydney), it's sometimes hard to pause and consider a lonely figure, but it's always very rewarding when you make a connection with a lost soul or someone who just needs a hug. I fail badly at this, rushing around everywhere and this has made me want to slow down a bit and be better at connecting with those who have faded to the sidelines. Love and peace - Dave
What I admire about him, is despite all of that sadness and failure he hasn't given up on living. It takes real strength to feel that way about yourself and not just take one more step off the ledge to fall into the abyss. In a weird way, seeing him still walking around despite his failures and loneliness gives me hope for myself, that I'll be doing the same at his age.
"0 people wished you happy birthday!" was the automatically generated message Facebook sent me the day after my birthday a few years ago... Well, thanks for the reminder.
Exactly that tiny part of YouTube that actually makes it valuable.
I wish I had a friend like James he is such an amazing person
I've had friends like this who loved me so much.  I'm grateful for this life.
It's never too late to find a friend and to find love. I pray James will find those things💗🙏
This conversation alone touched more souls than the majority of people, even the “successful” ones, manage in a lifetime.
Good on ya', James, for such fresh honesty, along with a complete lack of self-pity. I hope this video brings you some reliable companions in your neighborhood.
I hope James realizes it is never too late to share his work and see where it takes him.
My heart breaks for James. He is genuine and honest. I hope he does find a companion in friendship with someone. ❤
This almost made me cry from sympathy, ive struggled wih being alone and having social connections my entire life and its a feeling i would never wish upon anyone else
Bless you Jsmes ❤  And bless you for speaking with him❤
My God!!  How often has he thought of this.  Has he ever said this out loud before.  I feel for you James!
Hes blessed and doesn't know. The perfect type of blessing to have
He is me from the future. Haven't had a friend since school (20 years ago), never had a girlfriend, had a helicopter mother that harmed my development in many ways.
We have all felt james a little in our lives somewhere or the other.....bless him
James, you are a lovely gentleman, sometimes parents aren't close due to issues they may have, which are really not your fault, I have experienced this. God be with you and I send my very best wishes😊
Omg that's so sad. I really wish him (and anyone in the same position) the best 🙏❤
Mister James you don’t need to be someone you just need to be you thanks For the words . Indeed London is a very lonely city been there 6 years alone .
Thank you Chris and James. I hope we get to see those plays.
Thank you for posting this. I wish I could thank James too.
this touched my heart. I wish I was there to offer James a hug. I truely hope James got a good friend/s.
It is incredible that you came across James by chance and this conversation revealed the importance of the basics in life.  I feel like I have something in common with this man. I'm 18, have been experiencing loneliness for just under 3 years now after moving to sixth form. No friends, no teenage experiences, no physical or social connections with anyone, no real sense of direction. There's this feeling that "life ends at 18", even though it seems so strange - how is that even possible when you're not even 20 yet? But I try to imagine a way out of this and I can't see it yet. Regret is the most real and raw feeling and I can't help but consider myself a younger version of James.
In Gods eyes your a precious wonderfully made man. God Bless man.
I dont have james' exact story, but a lot of things align. Id love to give that guy a hug. He needs one and i want him to have it.
You’re still so young and all is not lost. You are very self-aware, which is a good thing. As someone who is between your age and James’s age, I’d recommend a few things. Join a gym. You will be surrounded by happy music and lots of healthy people. I’m not saying you need to turn into a bodybuilder, but look after your body because what follows from that is confidence that will impact many areas of your life. Please don’t engage in any illegal substances as that will impact your mental health massively in a very negative way.   I was extremely shy when I was your age and I had to leave all of my friends to move thousands of miles across the world. I survived that major upheaval and I’m here today. I have very few friends but that’s okay. I’m an only child too, which is really tough sometimes.  Find something you are talented at and that you enjoy doing. Become really good at it. That may take time, but the payoff will be immense. It will open doors for you and will help you socially.  I wish only the best for you. You have the whole world at your feet. I can’t imagine how excited I’d be to be 18 again. Think of yourself as a time traveller. Yesterday you were 70 and a failure. Today you’re 18. Think of the possibilities.
@ Thank you so much for your reply. I'm honestly very grateful that you took the time to respond.   Happy to say I started the gym in the middle of all of this with the aim of improving my confidence, and coming up to 2 years now. Something new I've tried this year is journalling. The reason why is because I have deep thoughts about the different experiences of loneliness, and it just helps to process everything.  It's certainly reassuring to hear those words about possibility again as it's been so easy to forget recently. I'm trying to think of this stage as part of a journey, and trying to remember that it can't last forever. Thank you once again. All the best 🙏
Oh sir I feel you so much. The exact same thing used to happen to me when I was a teenager and went to my 2 best friends' houses. I would see how their parents would hug my friends, talk to them warmly, and I would be completely surprised. Sometimes I would go back home and cry from envy.
It felt like he had been carrying this around all his life and probably never imagined he'd be opening up to over 1 million people. Makes you appreciate your mum a little more.
Far more people in this situation than we realise. Life passes quick. I drifted for too long but managed to claw some semblance of dignity back. I just feel it's sad to live a life of regrets. This guy looks healthy, well nourished and clothed. He may not have achieved his dreams but he clearly has at least the basics. I hope he realises this.
That hits me hard. I feel sorry for him.  Be kind people, he is a survivor of his own life.  Sad it still happening right now. 😢
Ohh James,your such a beautiful and kind man...May you receive your hearts desires, and it's never too late,the fact that you have life, that's a purpose....be encouraged in Jesus name❤
So many people, so many stories. Some fun and lively, some sad and nostalgic. This world really is an amazing place...
James wanted to make sure this time his life had meaning, he seized the opportunity to make his words mean something for the generations that will listen to his words. Being a loving mother and father is the greatest thing you can do in life.
James, you've just gotten about a million new friends who love you just the way you are.
It just goes to show....how we all percieve "it's just me, all alone, no success in life !"....in reality a high percentage of us all have a shared experience, we all share the same pain.
( Sorry for my English, I'am not a native) but....have you the same feeling as me ? Everybody would to have a friend in this simple man. Seriously ?  his humility ...it's rare in this fake and proud for nothing world. I admire this authentic and humble human.
What an honest, unpolished gem. If interviews like this doesn't spark one into action, I don't know what will. We're all flawed or scarred in some way, unfortunately many so much they are never able to recover despite all their qualities and efforts. The world is quite rotten and brutal sometimes.
No love from mother can permanently damage a young man, in ways we try to find that love from chasing girls and in sadly results in us pushing our boys away to chase tail, then getting played and us losing our friends and money in the process. Once the women are gone it’s just us alone in a cold dark room with an empty wallet. We try to find “love” through sedates and alcohol for the warm cozy feel. Men we must keep moving forward. James is an artistic, talented, tormented man just like all of us, and we could all be the man we want to be. Let’s stay strong brothers because nobody feels sorry for us. Keep moving forward !
Life is so tragic man. And I can feel that even though I have opportunities, my apathy and addictions are causing me to follow the same path as this gentleman and i feel powerless to stop it. This guy seems like someone I'd like to hang out with though.
It's always the saddest thing on the planet to me, to hear people say their parent never gave physical contact or affection. Evey child needs ro feel loved by their parents. ❤
I hope you hugged him. I want to hug him. I hope you become friends with him. I am a mother and it just made my heart ache hearing him say how he still longs for a mother's affection
Childhood is a ground you walk on throughout your entire life.
Love you James. Youre an inspiration to us that have traveled a similar path.
At least he's honest. Too many people now are the exact opposite as this gentleman, they believe their 3 is a 10. Be honest, accept reality or be imprisoned by it.
James I hope you get to read this. I admire your honesty. I am in the same boat. I am 43, every freind I have ever had is dead from drugs or stung out on them, so i cannot be around any of them. My family were never close, nothing could be comunicated at a basic level without someone feeling attacked emotionally and lashing out in anger. I have lived on the streets since i was 33 or 34. Always alone, always feeling a hole in my chest from a lack of love in my life.  Greif is something you either avoid or you experience it so much that it becomes a part of you. I am with you in thoughts and prayer this evening james. So tonight, at least in spirit, i share my friendship with you, from America.
I can relate to him talking about loneliness - God bless him 😢❤
He is more likely a better human than many that had big careers & families.. life is not fair ❤
Man i felt that. Honestly could've listened to him open up more. I hope he finds what he needs. Scary how close I am to him.
I wish you had spent some time with him and let him speak his heart out. Would have loved to listen to what more he had to say. God bless him🙏🙏
I used to think my parents were bad parents, but then I became a principal of an elementary school. There are so many poor kids today with HORRIBLE parents. Seeing this man confirms the same. I grew up feeling love from my parents, though they were flawed. If you've got healthy relationships with people around you, you've got everything. I wish everyone reading this much laughter, love, and deep relationships. This inspires me to love my son and wife with my whole heart. I refuse to drop that ball like so many oftentimes do.
And we all though WE had problems. Hope James finds happiness. I really do.
He gave lonely people a face. And he was so open minded about his life and situation. So i hope he will get friends soon. I have at least one friend..... my son. ♥️
He seems very honest. Thats more than alot of people can say.
Great self awareness and self reflection. I think James could build his profession based on his experiences. He looks like a cool guy nowadays.
I can really relate! It's so true. But it doesn't make you a failure, we don't need to live up to social standards!
No man is an island. You deserve to be heard, appreciated and loved. Have the courage to step out of your own assumption that you will be alone forever. That is a self-inflicted prison that no  one else is able to see and therefore not able to unlock - unless you tell them that you would appreciate company.
Damn, I came to YouTube for inspiration and I left with wisdom. All the best James. May you always be free and happy #libertyforall
James is a lot of us. I'm 61 and plagued with poor health, so I won't make it as far as James, but given that I too, have failed in life — and all the potential I had, which others saw in me and remarked upon — was misspent, misdirected, or not applied at all. I have only myself to blame. But I'm not too upset by it. Another 20-25 yrs of mistakes, failure, and regret, is something I'd rather not face.
It's wild how many people watched this. I hope he sees this and gains the feeling that he did achieve something pretty special, Helping/Impacting millions of people.  Cheers.
Its horrifically breathtaking  to see how lonely the world truly is.
I can feel him. I feel somewhat the same, I do wish I’ll build more connections in life
This guy and I had the same mother, I also have problems maintaining relationships with other people. Thank God my wife found me. But I completely relate to his story. Could've been me. Thanks for this video.
Ah, this hits hard…. i’m 32 and I already feel like I am the could-have-been man
God bless your soul sir. You did what you could with what you got from life. At some level everyone would like to change something, this is just the cruel reality..
Damn thats sad. Don't waste your lives people! Nothing is more important than Friends and Family!
Sad to say he's not the only one. If you're family betray you, it's hard to trust anyone the older you get. Safer alone, etc. BUT...he is a great example of survival. Those are skills he would have mastered as a child.
One thing I was lucky enough to learn and act on is don’t expect things to be different if you keep doing the same thing
I'd like to find him and tell him that there's no way he can be considered a failure when he had to learn to survive without what most people take for granted, a mother's deep affection. Just the fact that he can talk to a stranger as if he was a brother is a huge success as many of us struggle to even say one word to people around us.
I know how you feel bro, my own mother was a wicked sorry excuse for both womanhood and motherhood. You are never alone. God is always with you. 👍👍
James I wish you all the best in every way❤ Love from Cork Ireland🇮🇪❤
I have a family member like this. The one thing he always wanted was a family of his own, and it never worked out. 😢 I know how this man feels as I live it daily through my family member. Believe it or not, even many young people are feeling this.  I’m old now, but was blessed with children and grandchildren, yet often feel very alone. I wish someone could read his screenplays…and possibly something could come of it.
Well, he definitely seems smarter and more self aware than most people.  Im really sorry for his past.  I  hope he know other people feel like him sometimes
Great work on this. This is something to look forward to.
The idea that I would reach the end of my life with unrealized potential is one of my deepest fears. I feel this.
God has designed us all with unique and valuable gifts to share with each other. The sharing is what brings the value. James, share what God has blessed you with. It might not be your plays( but it might be!) but no doubt your time alone is priceless.
Oh James, many of us do resonate with you. Life is a strange thing.
it's always that feeling when you're neglected at early life and wouldn't even realize that other parents would treat their kids nicely
I'm sure no one will ever read this, much less James, but that gentleman embodies Dignity, and while he feels like a failure, you never know what your existence and embodiment of dignity will inspire in others.
What a beautiful soul - I'd love to be his friend.
the most lonely you would ever feel is not the one where you are all alone. It's the one where you are surrounded by a lot of people that you know and they know of you and they act as if you don't exist despite being in front of them and trying to interact with them.
What I would say to James is that it is never to late to form those friendships.  He has a good awareness of how his mother's coldness affected him in later life and he should let go of the regrets.  Get involved in some social groups or charitable groups locally and start to make those friendships now.  Its never too late in life.   He was very articulate and interesting.
Dude is a rockstar in another's mind. We all have something, but give ourselves very little.
Early maternal physical contact is so important to a human being's development!
Even with social media making it easy to stay in touch within mere seconds, people feel more disconnected than ever. Humans are pack animals. We ALL need friends and family to love us. We ALL need to have a sense of belonging with other humans. We are NOT meant to be alone on this earth. If you're reading this, please think of someone you know or even just an acquaintance, that might need a FRIEND. You may be able to change their life for the better and also make your life better too! That's how differences are made, one soul at a time!
🫡 you did it your way don’t beat yourself up for looking for a woman’s love because your mother didn’t gave it to you you amazing James ❤
I feel very much like this man. I can explain most relationships I've had away as being toxic or incompatable, but i haven't accomplished anything, all while having this incredible passion and lust for life. It's very sad, and i empathise with this man very much.
Hi James, you made me rethink the solitude I've been choosing so far.
Thank you James & Thank you to all my homies in these comments for making it known we're not alone <3
You are a big king James. Hats off. I’ve been on my own since I was 13 and I know how it feels. I’m 30 this year and I feel all my really sad, bad childhood till these days, everyday. I remember hunger, insects all over home, coldness at winter, dirty house, mold. I have mental illnesses, my mother was an alcoholic, I remember big big wars at home. My parents got divorced and my father disappeared for good. My mother went abroad for work, because we were so poor. I wanted her to do it, without her it was easier and better, I didn’t need here - I thought, but now I see how it was important to have a parent. I remember power city, one pants for 3 year of high school. I graduated from University and have decent work, a girlfriend, but no friends, none. My choice but also people don’t accept me. I hate people. I hate my mother. I hate my father, even when he showed himself after 7 years, he is noone for me. Stranger. I was bullied all life. You were alone since 3, man… I can’t even imagine that. You are not alone. There are a lot of us, but noone talks to each other. God had other plans for us and we have a special place in heaven. Wishing you all the sun and peace James
I can relate to everything he’s saying. He’s definitely not alone.
I had a very similar childhood. I know exactly how he feels. There has always been something missing from my adult life.
To think it only takes a parent to connect with a child 30% of the time for the child to become healthily attached and go on to feel a belonging and connection to the world around them; to think a parent only needed to do bare minimum to foster love and connection yet chooses to instead emotionally malnourish their own flesh and blood through emotional coldness and neglect, stunting them and causing a lifetime of pain and disconnection. Not all parents did their best, some did their worst, but I feel for all involved as for a parent to be so hard hearted towards their young means that someone that they emotionally relied on as a child failed them and thus intergenerational trauma is birthed and grows. My heart is with all my brothers and sisters who identify with this scenario, may you continue to live good lives and feel worthy of love and connection. You have a friend, I am your friend, please reach out ❤
James can't change the past, but he could make the future better without too much effort.
He was just a little ahead of his time.  Don’t worry, James, you’re the Everyman now.
we are crying and we don't even know it because the tears taste like anger, and dismissal and the cold turn of the knife of disdain. But beneath the 'other'ing the making wrong the raised voice of desperate fear we are crying because we miss each other
We are so lucky to even have the chance to live and experience life. There are always going to be people who have a more exciting life as well as people who live the most miserable ones, people who don't even have running water or a roof over their head. Even if life isn't all that it could've been, we were still lucky enough to have been born in an age where it is possible to live comfortably. Keep a good head on your shoulders, there will always be new opportunities for change. Don't dwell on the past, make tomorrow a better day.
I wish you all the best, James. Maybe there's still time.
I think the trick is to be proud of who you are. He called himself 'The Greatest Failure" for a reason
So sad he sounds highly intelligent but never used it to his own advantage 😢 the broken relationship with his own mother has dictated his life. You could tell he had many regrets and has basically given up. Bless him 🙏
There was probably so much more struggle than we could ever imagine beyond this short video. I hope... his solitude will be broken as he lives his life.
I'm very new to street photography and recently started studying photography at college, hoping to one day be able to do this and make a living off this. But even now if I would come across this man I know in the bottom of my heart, I'd give him a hug, my number and tell him he's always got a friend in me :) What a simple, heartbreaking but also beautifull soul this man has.
I have a feeling he can be in a movie or something!! Some producer or director need to pick him up, mold him, and let him redeem himself. Good luck mate! Powerful message.  By the way, you're alone, but not really. You speak for billions!
I totally feel that "Could-have-been". I dont know if i will regret not doing certain things later on and it makes me panic right now.
I feel like this story belongs to so many.  I feel this, too, is my story.
I vow my 2 month old daughter will know how much her mom loves her every day of her life and shower her with hugs and kisses until she's sick of me and rolls her eyes at any displays of motherly affection. Rather that than ever for one second think she wasn't loved
«  My mother was a pièce of ice… » that hit me hard
It's sad to think we live in a society where so many are lonely and think that it is normal
Comparison is a thief of joy and also the shadow of isolation
James is a brave and loving man to share the harsh true of a life apart from obeying God Almighty and wise living, the consequences of bad parenting and living only for oneself. Thank you, James.  Your words may well be the wake-up call someone needs to hear to turn their own life around and create generational emotional wellness instead of loneliness.
When he said the are 9 million people in London and I don't have a single friend...that hit my chest 😢
It’s not just you, James. Our civilization is crumbling. You are not alone.
ill be ur friend james.  we're never as alone as we may think
Seems like he had it worse than what I have. We're basically in the same line of life, different is that my parents were presents but not people my age around me when I was a kid. But even that significantly change my life. I still have what he called psychologically alone even today.  I'm certain that if my parents weren't present aswell, I lead the same life as this gentleman. Bless this man, may he get what he need and more.
People in his city that watched this video should find this guy and try to make him as a friend. Everyone has the right to be happy. This guy need a chance.
He grew up quite well though❤ Sir, if you're watching this, don't have regrets because you look good😊
Get your plays out there, James!  Enter them into a play writing competition.
I feel like this at 29 even though i love life and love simple things, theres always the thought in the back of not achieving enough.
He would be a very insightful teacher, i would have liked to have met him
Life is what you make it, it's what you chose and make it good or bad. As long as you have not had to fight for others.
There are so many people that can relate to what James had to say
Publish those plays online James!  Clearly an extremely intelligent interesting and sensitive person, I’d love to read what he has written!
It is better than being with the wrong people. I keep telling myself that as I walk through life alone.
Those with loving parents who hug them, and kiss them and speaking kind, encouraging words to them are blessed.  I was not one of them. But my mother did the best she knew how, having herself been raised by a cold mother and an alcoholic father.   If you are a young parent and you had an upbringing void of affection, please strive to break the cycle. Learn to love and show affection to your children. Talk to loving parents, read books, love yourself and let that love flow to your children. Never call them names or humiliate them.
Sometimes if you are surrounded by friends and may have a relationship you still feel lost and alone
i felt that... i also grew up without any love and would go with my parents to theuir friends houses ... and the moms would know me and my sisters were never hugged... and she would hug us and kiss us and i loved it...
I don't cry easily or often but this made me sad-for him and for me.
Damn. That shit hit me hard. I know exactly what he is saying about seeing the other boy interacting with his mother and seeing what a real loving relationship looks like. I wish you the best James. It wasn’t your fault. Maybe we will get it in the next life my friend.
This was sad and moving to watch 😢 too bad that James didn’t have the self belief and confidence to do something with those scripts he wrote. The video also highlights the importance of a loving and caring environment when growing up. I hope that James can now find some peace and solace in his elder years 🙏❤️✌️
I dare say that most of us will want to be your friend now and will be curious about your 2 plays too!
Id chill with this guy any day of the week. Seems like a self aware intelligent guy.
One of the most prominent examples of emotional intelligence that I have seen.
He was articulate and eloquent.  Someone find him and his plays!  Get them on stage!  Give him something to be klproud of.
If you are young don't squander your potential. Do the hard work, dream big, take chances, travel, keep learning, challenge yourself. Even if you don't succeed in everything you should have better memories and fewer regrets. And if you want to have friends you need to be a friend, go where you are needed and look for people on the margins.
I wish I could chill with him for a few beers. It would be so awesome to exchange stories with him.
James, if you read any of these comments, I would like you to know that you have accomplished more in your life than most people. Money, careers and all the things people use to measure a man's worth is nonsense.  You went through your childhood neglected and unloved and yet you chose to be the kind, genuine and humble person that you are. That in itself is the greatest accomplishment a person could wish to achieve. Just a thought....maybe volunteer somewhere, and you may find someone who needs a friend too, we all are struggling.
The fact that this man is the "could have been man" and cannot even have the basics in life should be a concern for society itself: A talented man, with a beautiful speech that manages to communicate profound feelings and thoughts with ease and inspire you. If he achieved this by speaking on the street, imagine how much more in his written works. He could also have acted in theater or cinema. In the West, they search for talents and can't find them, I was told three years ago. And how can they find them when they live in hypocrisy and lies, and everything that is true and alive is isolated and killed in some way, as shown by what has been happening in Palestine since 1948, culminating in the atrocities of the last 17 months.
Even at my age of 37 i can relate to him. Growing up i feel like i never lived up to my potential. I let so many opportunities just slip away in my life. I took so many wrong turns. Everyday i feel regret over the life i lived.
I don't think I've ever heard somebody describe themselves as the 'greatest failure to walk the earth' before. And he didn't sound despondent or depressed, he just said it very matter of fact.
Hes not a failure anymore. 1.6 million people now know who he is. Best of luck James.
The important things we seldom make urgent and the things we think are urgent are seldom important.
I can relate in different ways to James. Being honest the best thing I ever did was watch a video that showed up on YouTube one morning after I asked myself “why the fuck does shit keep happening to me”. It was Joe Dispenza I came across. I listened to wht he said and it was that we create our own reality by our thoughts and feelings. I knew it was true because my thought patterns and emotions were always in pain. Pain, it turns out is very addictive and can be alluring.   I put the work in and my life completely changed. I’m still working on myself but the hope is there. I wish you all the best. Thanks James for speaking your truth here.
there are many like James, and I feel that unfortunately there will be many more in the future.
I am at the end stages of my life.  I have so many regrets about things I did that affected other people negatively.
We're definitely only hearing one side of the story here, but what a fascinating guy. I'd enjoy a beer with you James.
James, recognizing your mistakes and shortcuts is the beginning of something great, the next thing is to act
The world is full of lonely people. Most of them are incredible.
He’s been through the refiner’s fire. He’s not a failure. He’s kind.
When you follow the system of society you will always end up with regrets. He is not Failure, He is but a being with Many mistakes just like the rest of us.
You are still alive my friend, you can pick yourself up and start with small changes. Instead of regret, take action to turn things around. Don’t waste time and precious energy  with regret and self pity, or think it’s too late. Life is now, it not fair and it waits for no one. You can choose to do nothing or try and make the most of what you have, your health, creativity and insight . Every day is a gift to start afresh, maybe write a play about your life. Bet it’d be very interesting, I’d pay to see it!
Well James- you have thousands of new friends and compatriots.   Please follow-up with this person.  I'd like to see him as guest on "Diary of a CEO".   That interview would be so moving.
Well that man is more self aware than most of the people at least.
It will be alot of people like James in the future.
That poor man really needed to talk to someone. Im glad he let it out. It’s not healthy to hold in those feelings.
'Physchologically alone','piece of ice', 'no physcial contact' - know how this feels word-by-word
James sounds incredibly brave. He was able to vulnerably divulge his trauma with humility where lots of people with baggage will hide and mask their trauma by living in a pretend, fantasy world
I can be your friend. Sitting at the door watching people go by and talking about the weather, drinking hot tea and eating bread
In a way it is so comforting knowing someone feels very similar to me.  But in another grim way, this capable man who is so mindfully aware of his circumstance and yet seemingly incapable of rectifying it is existentially dreadful; he’s a fully conscious fish in a bowl, and so am I.
All these social norms we place on society “I should have a house, I should have money, I should have been a somebody”   Be proud to be kind, to be helpful of others, these are the things that truly matter.   Having money shouldn’t make a person.
I m Sorry man you deserve Better....there Is Always still times to achieve something
Their are no regrets, their is no time for regrets etc. These lines sound so cool, but their are some people who have regrets very deep and many regrets that they feel many times, I know hanging on to them is useless but sometimes regrets makes you more Down to Earth.
He's not alone, my mother is a wretch aswell, I am very alone at 40 no friends no family just me and my dog. I don't do well with others and will be alone the rest of my days.
Everyone has a story. Interesting and sad. hopefully he can find some happiness. And yes, he had a cool look.
I like him: he might feel sad and that he's missed out on life, but he doesn't look or sound like a broken down loser, quite the opposite.  He seems still upright and alive and open to the possibility that things could change for the better.
This is like looking at myself in like 40 years if i don't do anything, but I've known this for years now, apathy and more just makes it incredibly hard, but i will keep trying, in a few days I'm going a information meeting for a therapy program, its scary and my mind keeps telling me its not worth it, but it is, being so torn between rational thinking and our irrational human mind is extremely tiring and i have no one to talk to, but i guess those therapists and so on will be what i need, at least it might be a start to finally find my sense of self worth and confidence again, maybe actually become a functioning adult, i just hope i can actually be happy again, maybe even find friends or love someday...
Wow. I am 35 and I felt every word as true in my own life. This is almost like I am looking to my future if I dont change. I have been tied down by lust and chasing women.
I hope he has a bunch of ppl to talk to, be friends with James!
Whenever you see one of those older guys walking the streets alone, something tells me they all have a similar story.
I hope our friend James finds himself in a conversation with those spiritually wiser people out there that are enlightening about people that say these things of themselves even if they may find themselves in a true predicament like James. You know, those Buddhist teachers and those who just understand that even your own life’s path is sometimes not always meant to be in your hands.
I think now he have more friends than he can count, and if he take this its his salvation in life, i would read his plays, from someone so alone and without a real mother he must have unique character that shines in his plays.
At the time of this writing this video has 77K views, which means James now has about 77K new friends and a lot of them are sending their love his way. I'm one of them. Thinking of you, James, and the many millions of people who have faced the exact same thing - meaning; you are definitely NOT alone.
Tengo 24 años. Literalmente soy casi el en su descripción dada para cuando el era joven. Tendré mucho en cuenta este video. Muchas gracias al cámara, y a James. ❤
I f***ed my life up, not completely, I am still here and breathing, but. In a sense it is the making of me.
Man went 51 years into the future just to make interview with me, respect.
I'm sort of James, except I'm ok with it. I don't regret as such because if I lived my life again I'd likely end up in the same position, no friends, socially awkward (autistic, Adhd) and alone but never lonely. I'd like to have 'turned out different' I suppose. I admire James for opening up and talking so honestly to Chris. I'd have stopped to talk to Chris but wouldn't have agreed to being photographed. James has a 'look' about him which at a glance exudes confidence and strength. It's heartwrenching to witness the regret and vulnerability his cloak masks.
Everyone has a past, present, and future. The choices we make in the present shape our future, but if they don’t turn out as we hoped or needed, they simply should become part of our past.
The world doesn’t owe you understanding. Either you rise above or you get left behind. The choice is yours.
it shouldn't be hard to get friends.... but it is I am like you James
He should try to get those two plays published. I’d certainly love to read them.
I'm the "So much potential if only..." girl.  Got year after year of teachers and bosses saying the same thing.  I could have taken over the world if my body and mind hadn't rebelled against me.
damn the man needs a buddy! we all have our own stories. treat ppl with respect because you dont know what anyone is going through.
The moment he talks about his personal life straight away, you know he's lonely. And probably always has been.
I don't know why but I can feel others pain 😢
I'm only 31, but I'm living a very lonely life because I'm on the spectrum and social interaction is extremely difficult for me. It's always been like this but I noticed that less people try to reach to you as you become older. That's why I sometimes think that I just don't want to live past 55. Just the idea of being an old man with nobody to talk to terrifies me. Now I have my parents, but someday they'll be gone...
In contrast to James, my Mother was a raging fire who would suddenly ignite and burn anyone around her when she got into a mood and it's affected my relationship with a lot of women in general. I've been burned this way and others so many times that i've kinda just emotionally shut down that side of myself and learned to focus only on myself, my friendships and my attempts to start a career in my late 30's. It's honestly been a journey for the better to come to terms with where i'm at and just kinda at least make peace with what i can and can't control.   You have nothing to fear or regret James. Many many men go their whole lives without accomplishing much but never feel too bothered about it. We live in pressure cooker societies where the small amount of people who rise to the top are portrayed as somehow normal and that you're a failure if you can't do what they do.   I'm sick of it. I'm doing what i can but i realise now that some people are given a very unfair advantage in life and others are given a very unfair DISADVANTAGE in life and it's not the fault of either side, nor their job to make up the shortfall on either end. If the world is imperfect then i have to accept my imperfect self.
It's too real. I look at my own life and can't help but feel I'm headed to the same place. I know that's where my father ended up, and I'm trying so hard not to follow suit, but not nearly hard enough it seems. Feels inevitable.
Such an awesome person. I want to be he's friend now😀
From childhood’s hour I have not been As others were—I have not seen As others saw—I could not bring My passions from a common spring— From the same source I have not taken My sorrow—I could not awaken My heart to joy at the same tone— And all I lov’d—I lov’d alone....
Im not into plays. But I would definitely go watch james's play. The internet could help change this mans life for the best.
Oh I wish to much to have a chat with this gentleman
You dont need to have a profession to have made it in life. I’m sure he’s lived a good life, been pleasant and kind to those he’s met along the way. That’s a lot more than some can say. Your job / profession doesn’t define you. Neither does money .
Hey Daniel, I also led a lonely life for the greater part of my childhood until my late 20s. That's when I started to connect with people over the internet and through games. I hate to admit it sometimes but my only friends are on the internet...but I love their company and It's nice to kill time playing games or watching something after work. I still think I'm lonely because I don't see anyone in real life and I've been trying to talk to people at the gym for months but I haven't really made a friend. Try to find your hobby and a community of people...its easier to connect when we have a similarity. Goodluck and just put yourself out there,
James, I'm 61 years old, and I"m in the same boat as you are
23 and don't really have friends. I have one friend of 13 years that lives 1.200kms away from me and we saw each other one time, 8 years ago. Sometimes I see myself thinking about the future, I think about it as a future alone. Man what a weird time to be alive. I need to find myself back. I need to be happy all alone. I hope I will make it..
I wish all of us who lack parents love could be in the same place, form a tribe and raise above after sitting at the fire allowing each other to be hear, because that's what I craved most to be heard, understood and that way loved.
this is a therapy session for him. may God give him some peace in this world.
Do people really need friends in adulthood? Creating relationships that work for a period of time is better than having friends. Friends should be situational.
James, you truly can still heal those wounds. Or at least partly. Find a soft therapist that works with attachment -- it's not over till it's over.
Mothers should realise that they are their son’s first love. Treat them right and they will happy for life.
"There is nine million people in Lodon... and I don't have a single friend."  That hits hard. :(
The problem was he didnt believe in himself. Never lose hope and fight for what you want
I'm 25, just graduated from college as engineer, the first person in my family going to college  My father tortured me physically and mentally, he make me sleep in the street  My mother never loved me, she always He did his best to get rid of me, he was never there when he needed her  Always I've felt so alone, no family, no brothers, no money, no health in consequence of my dad's torture.   Everytime I visit/know someone that has parents that support/love him, It gives me a lot of envy and resentment with life, why I couldn't have a family like this
Very sorry for your lack of childhood love & affection! However, “A man that Hath friends must show himself friendly “
Being alone woth no friends isnt a bad thing but its actually a luxury thing to enjoy! These fake friends are actually backstabbers...never thrust anyone!
Whos gonna tell him all those man made goals and achievements and diplomas mean absolutely nothing.
James would be surprised how many other people feel alone and perhaps always have done in every city and town in the world.      For those with attachment issues from childhood, for those on the spectrum, for those deeply damaged and hurt by other people you retreat to the only safe place you have....which is within yourself and your own four walls at home.   You always feel like an outsider looking in at the world.   For introverts it is somewhat easier to live a solitary life.
I absolutely dont see him as a failure. We are not here to achieve big things and be successful and rich, things like that. I believe we are here to become human beings, true human beings. That means honesty, integrity, things like that. I really think he achieved it. I mean, I dont really know him, but I really think so.
I liked him in the '' Withnail and I ''.  "I have of late, but wherefore I know not, lost all my mirth and indeed it goes so heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame the earth seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy the air, look you, this mighty o'rehanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted with golden fire; why, it appeareth nothing to me but a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a piece of work is a man, how noble in reason, how infinite in faculties, how like an angel in apprehension, how like a God! The beauty of the world, paragon of animals; and yet to me, what is this quintessence of dusk. Man delights not me, no, nor women neither, nor women neither."
Resume: give time, love, kisses and hugs to your children and they will never be alone.
Is there a longer interview? I'd love to hear more about this guy's life.
Someone needs to look at those plays he’s got on his desk!
awh man that makes me a bit sad. i do have an amazing family but i feel the same. i also feel alone and feel like my life could have gone way better and would have been a lot easier.   I do regret a lot of decisions that i have made, and wish i would have people around me that love and like me for who i am. I wish i could buy James a beer or 2 because i bet he is a man with great stories and if not then great humor.
68, alone, similar background. Aged 60 diagnosed with Asperger’s. But life only makes sense backwards. I would change none of it. I would not be me if I did. Alone and happy. Pensioner.
James the memo is society makes you believe you need to have a succesfull job, money or whatever it blames you for not having. What is beautiful about you is that you are, you are honest against yourself and you are aware that you live. It really seems you live freely, maybe because you have to say in what you do. But its a gift and choice wich you have done very well. Your amazing, and yes lonelyness sucks, but luckely there are other people in this world ;).
All power and prosperity to Middle name James... Hehe... Really went through my heart..
At least half of those planet is like this guy. Jesus❤
I'm sorry James, you are not the world's biggest failure. I have that crown, but no regrets. I was meant to fail and I don't blame myself any longer.
I think, rather sadly, that are many, many people out there that feel the same...I know I do....but one has to keep positive....
James seems to be a decent, stylish, eloquent man who survived a dreadful ice-cold childhood. I don't think he realizes how much of an amazing success story that is, despite the suffering and loneliness he's endured.
I hope he listens to the director and appreciates who he really is and not the story he’s been telling himself.
James, never mind being a nearly man, being born, and living in a 1st world country, you won the lottery. You are a winner Sir.
This is my wake up call... im 33 and this sounds so much like  me but with small differences. I'm done wasting my potential.
There's an epidemic of loneliness in this world and it's interactions that like this one which make it more bearable.  Please go and interact with someone like this today  - listen to them, care for them, hear them.
I'm just like James, i had everything in the bag to become great in many things: pretty smart, athletic and above average looking, great at communication. But I've ignored these gifts all my life and i know that feeling so well, the feeling that you made yourself useless for some stupid idiotic reason. The only difference is that my upbringing was decent enough with a loving family, but i still screwed up.  For anyone reading this, dont be so hard on yourself and learn to appreciate the things you are good at. Don't be better for society, be better for yourself, in the end that's all that matters.
I love my life, and about 65% of my family members are ok. I wish him a better life but yeah, there will always be differencee
James you lived your life your own way, no regrets. I'm not sure you would have been any happier if you had gotten those things you feel like you failed at, there is no amount of money or status that can fill voids left by childhood trauma. You would probably be feeling bad that you spent so much of your life at your career and it didnt bring you the sense of wholeness that you had hoped for. I hope he isn't still being too hard on himself. The biggest danger of being alone all the time is having no one to check your or call out your negative ideas/thinking.
"I'm facing a bully who has been abusive to me." - the 64 year old, medium rare girl that stole 250K from her son and withholds wages from her staff.
Dad writes a book about how his dad stabbed him in the back and says to Gordon “imagine a father doing that to his son”, then steals 250k of his sons money to make a failing restaurant and has no remorse.
The irony that the owner wrote a book about his dad who wanted to force him into his business, saying that it's "shocking a father would do that to his own son" while having done the exact same thing to his own son, except his son didn't even get the chance to walk out
You know what's weird? Gordon Ramsey is the only person who doesn't yell and scream in this episode.
David having the balls to fight everyone AND actually cooked better on his own is an absolute gigachad move.
Your son is sobbing, you don't comfort him. His girl friend literally jumped over another person to hug and comfort. 😢
“What is that strong taste?” It’s called SEASONING, Gen. She’s not a clown, she’s an entire carnival
After this episode, David Blaine just needs to send prospective employers the clip of Gordon giving his burger a 9/10 instead of a resume.
Gordon  isnt in the building 5 minutes and the owner admits to felony embezzlement. Wild.
Imagine Gordon Ramsay giving your burger a 9/10 in front of your goddamned boss who's not only just been shat on by him but who's also been nonstop dissing you and your burger cooking abilities to Ramsay. That is THE moment in that mans career.
“He’s working on the spirit of being paid” he said that with confidence
Things we know about Jen:  - Mushrooms are important to her - She’s from Poland - She doesn’t swirl the pans - She doesn’t chop the mushrooms - She doesn’t make the pattys  - She doesn’t put the salt on - She’s a 64 year old woman - She’s a medium rare girl  - She’s not that powerful
The fact their son’s girlfriend has the balls to call the parents out is awesome!
The fact that his father admits to literally stealing his sons money with no regret just shows how utterly dispicable he is, the same goes for the mother too
"Its hard for a father to admit he's wrong, and I admitted it." He is literally such a narcissist. You want a trophy? You don't praise yourself for that
That one guy who said “I’m not an avid yelper but I had to make an account to comment how disappointing your burger was” killed me 😂
"for the record dear I'm not on prozac" "For the record you should be!"
Update weather you want it or not:   Burger kitchen stayed open for about a few months however it slowly reverted back to the old restaurant. The reviews went from mediocre to bad and the burger kitchen closed soon after the episode was filmed.  Another restaurant was opened in the same spot but soon closed down afterwards. Now, a new restaurant is in its place and is striving until this day.  Daniel sued his parents, presumably for the 250,000 and won it.   Finally, Allen saffron died of a heart attack in 2020 aged 70 (I think).
I cannot believe Gordon actually read that dumb book. He really cares for people and is driven to help them. Such a great role model, seriously.
And said David's name for like 3 times to get him to do something for her or smth
SHE'S THE OWNERS WIFE MAN, she doesn't get any sympathy from me especially after learning WTF her husband did to open up the restaurant
"what kind of father do this to his son" .. Hello? This is reality calling, anyone home? :face-orange-raised-eyebrow:
 @indiandude33cute81 i think she said Holland. Which makes sense since mushrooms tend to be Dutch.
Gosh! That father does not want to own that he stole his son's money.
 @JoriDiculous  - lol, I was listening to him going on to Gordon about his own father stabbing him in the back etc and saying "how can you love someone who stabs you in the back?"  and I just kept thinking "are you for real dude??"  like he's criticizing his own father for what he did yet he stabbed his own son in the back, forcing him into a business he did NOT wanna be in by stealing the kids money....
in fairness it was mob money from his grandfather so it should probably go to someone else
It’s unbelievable. The way he said “ I told him after the fact” that he’d ‘invested’ in the restaurant… then “he resents me - I don’t know why.”
​ @thin_white_duke1 that's what I hear every time too. "Mushrooms are important to me, I'm from Poland" eh? 😂
What’s with those hats lol, seriously though poor guy having to deal with a Dad like that. And the dad was just copying his dad. History repeats itself! Hopefully these guys break this cycle in their family and move forward into a positive future!
well said, and 'abusive' to her means telling the truth...sign of a narcissist
 @NormalBob How so? They’re everywhere where you got enough dark and humidity. Definitely all of Europe, North America, Northern part of Asia…
​ @K67115 I was thinking the same thing. He didn't want to go into the family business so he left Australia and yet he forced his own son to be a part of a business he didn't want to be in.
This episode is considerably old now and i doubt that the restaurant is still open (it could  be)
she's an attention seeker who wants to be right. no matter what she does.
​ @joshuaaxel3283  No, just plain nasty. They had a good chef and a lovely son and they treated  both like sh1t.
​ @toasty1469 think 35 was the number of years they've been Married "Your Wife of 35 Years!" She cried? She was used to controlling her husband & son & could not bear, could not understand why the chef was not 'under her spell'.  Like with her son's girlfriend who, being a woman, can't be 'charmed'.  Maybe she was a looker when younger - did he say he had met "this beautiful girl."  She even refers to herself as a girl!  Why does she say "my son" as if he is not Their son?
And they have the nerve to not ask but TELL their son to put $1,000 into their account the next day!!!
Well on top of that she asks what power she has. She is one of the owners. She has the most power. They all clearly deflect. The only person in that family I don't really blame is the son because he is the one baring everything and he finally cracked. Was it right to fire the chef that could probably help? May not be the best decision but oh well
Fr she pisses me off. And why does every old person need to make it everyone's problem when their over the age of 50. Like "iM 64 yEArS oLd" OKAY? shut up and fix tbe restaurant
I really hope that chef got a good job because  woman is nuts. I don’t know how Ramsey even dealt with her crazy ass coughing like the burger was bad she’s nuts
 @Joey-me1mn don’t feed into it. No one country can claim a fungus that grows rampant anywhere the spores land
Just when I thought you couldn’t get a more delusional family than Amy and Sammy… meet Alan and Jen. Blaming everyone else for their failures except themselves.
"In not that powerful" What you mean? You control his paycheck. You hold his livelihood in your hands of course you have power over him
This is their son  restaurant !..they used HIS MONEY!! WTH? All paperwork should be changed to reflect that..his own parents robbed him for their dream ..disgusting..classic narcisstic parents .any way ..its good david could take over ..his parents need only be a fixture in background . Stay out of way .and keep their mouths shut ..sad 😢truth ..
​ @lisawentworth6831 both parents narcissist ..wow..both my own are..i recognize all the abuse on son ..right of the get ..! Dang..it makes one loose their mind..all the projections,gaslighting ,delusions of granduer ,absence of accountability ..omgosh on and on and on ..😫😫
I love how much the assholes try to play victim. Sometimes hits home a little hard but amusing never the less.
 @indiandude33cute81  Polish BACKGROUND.   Probably born in the US and just being a massive RPITA.
She needs to come off that cross because somebody could use the wood.
More of a raw girl because that’s how he’s always been making them 😂
And her son is literally living in a dump. They stole his Money and legally, they own the Restaurant, not the Son. He needs to go get a lawyer and get his correct paperwork otherwise if anything happens to the parents, he will loose a quarter of a million dollars 😡😡, Greedy. I see why Granpa  left his grandson the money.
A bully.. She stole money for her own son!! Karma caught up to her!
Why does she insist on being around Chef David ❤ especially if they don't get along, it's like she intentionally try to provoke him!
How is a father literally stealing from his son "reality" like ya that's what happened, but your acting like that's a perfectly normal, and reasonable thing to do. My dad never stole from me, in fact, I can rely on my dad to give me money, if I'm in need. Because that's what dads do, they help their children, not fucking steal and force burden on them by forcing them into a restaurant and debt they never wanted. @JoriDiculous 
Dude should be in prison for stealing a quarter of a million dollars from his son, right? Wtf?
​ @NormalBob Polish people also absolutely love mushrooms, but they literally grow almost everywhere in the world 😂
​ @NormalBob no, she said she was polish, im dutch, the only mushrooms we find important are the ones that make you hallucinate
I feel so bad for the son and his grandfather who gave the money to him to use for his own good, ended up being stolen by the parents.
God, the way she pretended to be disgusted by the burger was hilarious.
There discusting owners not paying there staff and stealing there sons money id take them to court.🤮🤮😈💩💩🗑🗑🐷
⁠ @toasty1469 No, She and the owner have been married for 35 years, she’s still 67
​ @rossgillcreative I think the cycle is definitely gonna be broken. I don't see that guy becoming a father and the crying like a little girl all the time will eventually cause his woman to leave. She can't get along with his family ( which is understandable) so she'll eventually bounce.  Women don't want no soft man and if everytime he's gonna stand up for himself he's gonna start crying like a little soy boy he's gonna be screwed 😆
 @indiandude33cute81  as a polish girl i never met someone who cares about mushrooms so much. im enberessed to be from poland becouse of her
That woman is a master manipulator. What a witch. I would press charges on my dad if he did that to me and end up owning the business. I can't believe Gordan didn't leave, but I respect him even more than I already did because he stayed for the kid. That is more paternal than his own dad. Wow!
I agree and chef David had every right to hate her guts not to mention the fact that they held him back even though he’s an executive chef!!!!
​ @Aimee42  that line always gets me, she's such a nasty old crown, who we as the audience can see her mentality of being a Karen. Yet, she acts like the victim. 😂
​ @JoriDiculous  The shittiest parents on the planet. IDK why his son has any contact with them after the shit they pulled. If it were me the last thing I'd say to them would be "don't ever try to contact me again. Consider yourselves lucky that that's all I'm doing."
DELUSIONAL OWNERS!!!! I WOULDN'T GO THERE IF IT WAS A 10 STAR
They need to get rid of the two in the kitchen that are cooking
Danny needs to physically ntoss his father out the back door
Talking about Gen here?😂😂😂 yeah no this resteraunt fell apart after the video.
​ @xXz0mbiegirl  that's on the chef, if it is to be made medium rare, and he leaves it raw, that's on the chef.
Let me get this straight, the son had inherited money, the farther took the money to open the restaurant and the farther doesn’t know why his son resents him.  I’m gonna be blunt. He resents you because you stole your sons inheritance money & forced him into doing something he didn’t want but had to do it.   To the farther if your son has gone no contact then I don’t blame him.
 @ConorsrepostsMusictrailers  you're wrong. He didn't steal the money, and his son was 100% in the business.
 @quesotx  they didn't with hold wages, they didn't steal anything from their son. It's amazing how many are taken in by the manufactured drama.
 @cathykinn4516 The Girlfriend knows the game, the husband is clueless, and it’s hard for a son to cut the cord completely.
​@indiandude33cute81  we don't claim her they should have given him the restaurant when they used his money to open in the 1st place or asked him what he wanted to do in life not just jump into something the think he will like to do for fun and not for money
The Son has no choice to go into the restaurant because without a choice he's the owner basically he's constantly putting money into it. His Parents are disgusting.
​@flipradio123  the restaurant is gone, the father got charged with fraud and he died of a heart attack
You can see it as well as to how she speaks and her body language. She purposefully lowers her head and looks from a lower angle. She does this with Gordon but when you see her speak with David or even with others; you can see it change to being in an upper level of sight and higher chin.   This is commonly done when people tend to want to look vulnerable to a person of authority but is quickly revealed to be a facade when she speaks normally or with others.  Narcissistic.
 @gigglebuggy  , yea I had already posted a comment about that irony without knowing Gordon would later tell Alan "The way you [Alan] describe your Father is the same way Daniel would describe you...." It's really sad seeing families fight tho as someone who dearly loves my family and miss my folks after caring for them the last years of their lives. Despite often having "years", once they're gone it seems like the time was too short.
 @zenithperigee7442  I know right, I saw that he made the connection at the end of the show as well. I am surprised he didn't make it earlier in that hallway when the dad was complaining to him
Pretty much in yoru face NPD (Narcissitic Personality Disorder) It's icky to watch...no freedom from that.
The son needs to sue the shit out of the dad
Literally this…I was coming to say this thank goodness someone else saw that bs
Now just imagine if Amy and the wife got married 😅
The son just needs to sue the F out of his dad and take over as soul owner
 @wcemichael  I watched a follow up on this one, the restaurant shut down 3 months after ramsay was there and then the son opened a lawsuit on his father
It reminds me of my pops. His father, my grandad that I never met was going to pay for my pops to go to Drexel but there was a catch. He would only pay for it if he was going to take the classes to become a pharmacist and take over the family pharmacy down in Ocean City (NJ). My dad told him that he didn't want to be one. Hie dad cut him off and stopped paying for his schooling. I think that might have been the last time they spoke. But pops found a way to pay for college, got his degree, and was able to enter the army as an officer, lucky for him he was to young to go into WW2, but too old to be made to go to Korean or Vietnam. Or who knows if I would be alive today. Anyway he became an oil/natural gas salesman and was very successful. Though he had another family/son before he met my mom and remarried. His other son, my half brother started visiting our grandmother regularly as she neared the end of her life. Basically, he knew she lead remarried and her 2nd husband was a pretty savvy investor and left her with a couple million. So he manipulates her into writing him into her will and only giving her son a portion of it. My mom tried to tell him what she suspected was happening when we found out how he was visiting her alot. Anyway, my dad couldn't and wouldn't believe his son would basically try to steal his inheritance, but he did. Poor guy, betray by both his father and son. He really didn't deserve that. RIP pops..
When i heard his father say this I thought no way this shit is scripted what a hypocrite
Right on.  Plus, he yells & carries on in the kitchen, upsetting everyone.
It honestly boggles my mind how the irony is lost on his dad
For sure, but, I'm betting the Granddad who left his son and grandson money was actually a stand-up guy and while Alan was a despicable son and clearly a a despicable father.
 @yournumberonepal  I totally agree. I watched some follow up on this episode and it turs out the grandpa was an outlaw, in something like the mob where their family is from and the dad refused to be involved in crime and so he left the family behind and went to start his own life, funded by the grandpa, even though the grandpa resented him for it and even gave him much less in his will than family members like step neices and such. I dont think the grandpa was a bad guy, I think the dad just hated him and made it seem like he was a horrible person to him.
 @hedduyou  Wow! I had no idea, I never saw a follow-up, thanks for that added context, appreciate it.
You could tell Gordon wanted to say something as well, but he held his tongue for a change.
“Idk why my son resents me” GEEEEEEEEEEEE I can only wonder…….
It almost feels like parody, how astronomically ignorant and stupid it is
 @oceanbreathyogawellness4487  A person with NPD would never have backed down and would have sought revenge after being put down like that. So no, he does not have NPD, but he still was being a bad dad
​@bailfire2741  Well, there are quite a few different kinds of narcissism.
It is so weird how the irony is missed by the guy.
Gordon was literally speechless and finally says “uuuh sounds like a good read”
 @tomwallen7271 i was literally like did they fake this for TV?? But its too insane to fake that
Apple doesnt fall to far from the screwed up tree. The only good seed in that damn family is the son. Even tho he got mad at the chef, no one's perfect. In hindsight the son did David a favor.
 @MeatSim64 I think if he stays with Wendy and stays far away from his parents he can break the cycle. I think his mother will hate Wendy forever and could possibly break them up if the son lets it happen. Looks like he sued them so thats a great way to create A LOT of distance 😂
 @carolinedonnelly1526   Yeah as long as he doesn't see his mother again, he's better off. RIP to the dad even tho he was a scumbag.
It’s all just wild that he thought “you know, I can use this show to promote my book because that’s also a failure.”
How he said that and didn't link in his brain to him doing almost the exact same thing to his son....
It was the dad's money.  The son and gf were ingrates.
That guy is 29 years old but looks like 50 from all the depression and mental abuse.... sad
This has been my favorite moment. I wonder who is still alive from this family
Lmfao what a joke of a "book" or "show" this is lol
When he was talking about what his father did, I was like bro, that’s what you did to your son too 💀😭😭
This was definitely the hardest episode to watch.   Such a stressful situation.  I could not imagine living in that nightmare.
 @10forthebigguy61 but won't get a cent . There is nothing left .
Yes, she is at least delusional as her husband ! :))
She cant ate good burger with the amount of bad ones she ate xd
 @moon.iea04  and yet she's perfectly fine eating chef ramsey's burger without any problem whatsoever 😂😂
 @afiqrizal645  Different flavour profile. The pickle and the smoked cheese probably knocked her out.
 @spectre6275  I hope he found a better place to work at. He's so talented.
 @egon2499  once you get past the magician, and another chef on youtube that looks nothing like him (no matter how much people try and say its just weight loss)  You find a John David Blaina working as a pastry chef at a place in California "mission Inn Hotel & Spa" (according to the KN fan site thats where he cut his teeth... pastry chef) no pictures to confirm but maybe someone else can work something out from there 🤷‍♂️
You could tell it was fake. Especially with what she said after
Every dumb imcompent owner who never trusts the staff that make this work their life: "What is that taste im having?"  The depressed burnt out chef who's tired of all this stupid nonsense and morons running business they can never afford: "That's flavour."
David's side eye after she said "I'd love to" lmaooo she petty asf!
She was capping so hard. Reminded me of Squidward lol she knew she liked it
that and her not caring about the customer reviews at all
Gen i think was the worst one here with such stinking attitude!
 @egon2499 lol I know I’m 2 years late but he owns a BBQ joint and doing well
 @Carpcarpenter  I've heard from someone who claimed to be his nephew is that he's now retired and is living in the woods near Yosemite
​ @afiqrizal645 Because she faked the reaction when eating David's Burger because of her problems with him.
We need a petition to put this karen in a facility ASAP, shes nuts and the son at least deserves her part of the business and a garanty shes gone for good, make the father give him the full business and btw someone give a job to David he probably was a great chef
The tragedy is that this situation is very common in our societies. It's a vile circle in which you must break it but given the couple delusional ideas, Daniel should have walked away from them.
 @streetridersss8360  The son should have retained a lawyer and sued his parents for illegally using his inheritance( caused by the father's access to his son's trust fund).  It seems like a straightforward case to win and if the son had been able to go that route right at the opening of the restaurant he would have been saved from so much pain, stress, drama and heartache.  It was always in his best interest to walk away from his parents and cut them out of his life; for his own health and well being.
not really - pretty classic that the abused becomes the abuser
The tragedy is that people don’t show there elders the respect they deserve they just take everything for granted. An only care for money
 @exceed5456  But in this case it's the complete opposite? He shows his son now respect and actually steals money from him. And I wont respect anyone never mind "elders" if they dont show respect to me.
I figure that is why he has stolen HIS son's money and done what HE wants with it!! Daddy would NOT leave him anything!
He is just providing an opportunity for his  son to write a bestseller titled "My father who wrote a book complaining about his father forcing him into his buisiness has forced me into his buisiness and stole my money" how thoughtful of him.
 @exceed5456  you clearly came here to spread your own deludedvmessage regardless of the actual content of the video. Shame on you.
I know right? Yknow th burden tht he had he don't even had a choice it's just so sad
 @friv_0881  He did. It led to nothing but a telling off by the judge who said that legally they did nothing wrong, but ethically, the parents were disgusting people and should get punished.
 @funverhau  and without any self-reflection. this is so common but rarely they have willpower to write manuals how to pass generational trauma to the next leg. that makes it a bit funny and sad at the same time.
And he didn't even have the insight to see he was repeating what his father did to him.
and even crazier He choose a GF so similar to his father XD
To be fair there is a big difference being forced to be in a restaurant business then to be forced into the Australian maffia/mob.
 @MrTalksYT  yep, a real nasty bit of work by all accounts.
Actually first I thought this guy tried to set Mr. Ramsay up. I couldn't believe that he said the words out loud and didn't hear what he was saying.
 @TheInfamousLegend27  and what research have you done?  Have you read someone elses "research" online?
 @TheInfamousLegend27  why do you need to know how much inheritance he got?  Do you know this figure, and if so, how do you know it's accurate? As for Alan not being able to be in there when it was filmed.....is he superimposed by a special effects dept, I can see him onscreen. And how do you know Daniel replied personally to help, what is your source? And what is your source for it being a joint venture and not theft of the sons money.
The abused becomes the abuser, it's sad really and what's more sad is that this is often a pattern of abused people
Him giving the book to Ramsey was definatly an attempt to create an opening to say sorry.
​ @Demonarrows1 nah anyone can be abusive and it's not necessary that's someone who got abused will turn and do it again. Many will ofc because that's the only relationship model they knew growling up, but likewise many will think man what I experienced growling up was fucked up I better not repeat it. Plus as I said anyone can end up abusive even if they didn't get abused themselves
Well, knowing how Alan was acting and how he literally stole $250k from his own son without a shred of remorse, I would bet Alan was the problem in his relationship with his father and the father was trying to keep Alan from acting like the psycho he is.
If we don't learn from our past. The past is doomed to repeat itself.
There is no need for that when this is already hell's kitchen
He is still a Chef. He work him self up as all of us did from prep to head-chef. This is a show but he knows how the staff must feel and what they suffer. He reminds me of drill Sargent in this video. You know you fucked up bad when drill Sargent is not yelling at you.
I think he did I think he yelled the entire episode because if he didnt nobody would have heard him XD
Only because he's now concerned with selling and promoting his Mr nice guy image like never before.
 @TOKOLOSE , totally different animal. Drill sergeants yell, to test you under pressure. And that's all. If a DS doesn't yell, he is really trying to help you, or is plotting to send you home, by letting you hang yourself by your own rope. Notice he didn't even try to bring the executive chef back. From a retired Infantry sergeant, who rose to the rank of sous chef, before crossing the finish line of the rat race.
 @frankwalker3996  I don't know anything about this "Mr nice guy" promotion you're talking about as I don't follow him, but this episode aired 12 years ago, so that's hardly it.
 @frankwalker3996 Nah. He IS a nice guy. Unless people are delusional and need a good yelling at, and unless you put the safety of customers at risk with old meat etc. (Btw, there’s much more yelling in the US version than in the UK. Because DRAMA!)   Well, I’m sure no Chef Ramsay, but whenever people are yelling at me or each other, I sure won’t be yelling either. That doesn’t serve anybody.
Looool laughed highly  :D   Yeah thats weird right bcz we know him always screaming and  yelling but he is there for make job to run and not put more caos into caos. He is realy pro and best of the best in the world of this bussiness i think.
Spot on comment.. what a crazy couple and the damage they have done to their son, his wife and their business..
I think it's because he knew how bat shit crazy they are and yelling would just be a complete waste of breath. I agreed with Chef DB, they both don't go to the top floor, the elevator doesn't go there brother. Lmao next chance I get I'm using this on a coworker.
Yeah, I was shocked that he didn't blow up on David and Gen when David was demanding his final check. They were both going absolutely mental right in front of chef Ramsay and he just sat back and watched lol  Think he just felt so bad for Daniel, he didnt have the heart to scream
I think that's because Gordon realized just how dangerous and explosive this situation really was. And he was right, apparently Daniel later sued his parents and won.
This was the most surprising episode ever 😂😂 even Chef Gordon was stunt ..
Gordon's quiet mode is far more terrifying than his yelling and cursing!
It's funny how true that is and the editors ham fisted a "its raw!" yell from another episode, but it wasn't the kid's fault, so I doubted he'd scold him in that moment, not to mention I recognized the sound clip immediately. Couldn't tell you which episode, might be hells kitchen, but I know that sound bite and I know my sound editing. Low blow to Gordon and the kid from the producers. I don't watch Gordon's better years because he yells it's because he convinces me that he gives a shit and takes a hands on approach.
I heard that outside of the TV shows he's a pretty nice dude and doesn't scream and curse as much as reality TV says he does 😅
Prolly because he grew up in a dysfunctional family with an abusive father so maybe that kinda brought up bad memories for him.
because its an EU episode. The US version is intentionally over dramatic.
He doesn't need to  everyone else is doing it for home
David Blaine is my Kitchen Nightmares goat. Hands down the funniest character to ever appear on the show. He had so many good lines.
That's because he noticed the actual deeply rooted issues in the family it wasn't a problem with the business it was a problem with them and he's not qualified to fix that yelling with only have made it worse
One other person in this episode I seen didn’t yell also so maybe 2 people in total out of all that didn’t yell lol
 @Falksfakt  , actually it's the owner Alan Saffron who passed away 4 yrs ago at age 71 from a heart attack.
Imagine being a PASTRY chef and making a burger for Gordon Ramsay to rate it 9/10 that should def go on a job resume
It saddens me that David was blamed while Danny behaved like a super baby.  No one fed the dreams of the underclass.  Only the rich were served.  My daughters are horrified.
He barely spoke. He just sat back and watched the carziness.
I don't think that word means what you think it means.
 @ricktandron3669  Danny went overboard and exploded from stress, but at the same time, you can't threaten your boss and think you're not gonna get fired. He was also WAY too focused on getting his little Prozac strikes in at Gen, even if she was a bitch. Ramsey gave his burger a 9/10 and he started feeling invincible.  I think they both realized they were in the wrong after cooling off, but ultimately David leaving was probably for the best. Just way too much bottled up frustration. Even if it was justified, just not a good idea for him to stay there.  I wouldn't call Danny "the rich" considering all the money he HAD got stolen by his parents who then just kept draining even more from him. Plus, David can now put "9/10 from Gordon Ramsey" on his Resume, I don't think he'll have trouble finding better work.
Right? Then the  Dad said “ to say she needs Prozac is below the belt and disgusting” okay how about stealing $250k from your son? 🤡
 @ricktandron3669  they were both awful, but you can't talk to people the way he did and expect to keep your job.
Their son has no emotions except cry or anger, I agree taking it from him was wrong, but they have babied him and now he can't handle any stress. His dad is a total idiot and I think his dad tried to reason with him about leaving Australia and he refused to listen. "blissful ignorance" and raising a son with that mindset is harmful.
 @zenithperigee7442 damn, probably all that red meat (leading cause of heart disease)
I knew when the old lady tasted it that she was gonna try and say some shit about how it wasn’t good, but that burger looked FIRE
I'd hire that guy any day, and I'm not even in the food business.
David was an immature bully. Insulting other people like that is not what actual adults do.
​ @salster they had that man working under the spirit of being paid, fully fighting him the entire time
 @ricktandron3669 Daniel had his money stolen never wanted to be in a restaurant the father was evil and disgusting glad he’s gone and can’t screw anyone over
 @tymonster183 he owns half the place lmfao he can’t lose his job that was forced on him by his father and the money that was stolen from him MAKES HIM AN OWNER yall clearly would screw over loved ones to do what you want and it shows
 @nyrea8163  No, I wouldn't do it to begin with, How can you judge everyone on a wrong that was committed in the first place? His son is the way he is because of the choices of the father.
 @Beardshire  yeah that’s what I’m saying it is not his fault he buckled under the stress any one would break under that
​ @ZionSype  you dont abuse an employee and refuse to pay them and expect not to be treated like shit.
​ @sorantohell5096  That's kinda my point. David had clearly gotten to a point of no return. It didn't matter how they turned the restaurant around, he had far too much hatred built up for Gen to continue, justified or not. There's no world where him being there is a good thing for anyone.  And regardless of any of that, the real problem is him threatening Danny, the guy who ultimately is getting siphoned to pay his checks, over a small argument because he doesn't like his mom.
​ @ZionSype well it's possible that Danny has always been used by his parents. It's possible Danny has been rich all his life and didn't realize it. The grandfather said to his Dad if you move to America then we're finished but there was something still there for the grandson at least since he was given a trust. I wonder if the grandfather was sending money over the years and the father was intercepting it and keeping for himself
 @ricktandron3669  glad it wasn’t just me thinking that even if the parents screwed him, kid is having a tantrum during service
Tbh, fighting the son was a bad move, he was just doing his best in a restaurant he did not want
​@ricktandron3669  you don't ducking threaten people at worn and expect to keep your job you know
I don't get this "don't expect to threaten your boss" crap. He obviously didn't care anymore. The place was a mess run by four dysfunctional people all fighting each other and all literally trying to scape goat him, talking down and treating him like he's stupid, and you'd expect he should kiss their ass and be worried about being fired when he's not even getting paid!? Lol get fuck outta here.  What takes the cake above everything else was the fake cough acting like his burger wasn't good after Gordon praised it!! OMG hilarious. Him being fired was probably best thing for him, and ultimately for everyone. They burned that bridge, and the son berating him about tickets was just the last push needed. Honestly feel nothing but respect for him. Stood up for himself, and the real proof is that Gordon didn't blame him at all once he seen the reality of things...
Not being able to cook hamburgers to order in a hamburger restaurant doesn't say a lot about your Chef abilities
 @ricktandron3669 he threatened him, you’re not supposed to do that, being a good cook shouldn’t just absolve you from ever doing something wrong.
​ @vectorrondon5852  Gordon praising his burger, opened a lot of doors for him I bet!
​ @SystemofaLando  wouldn't hire him if all the food he made was given a 9/10, he's a c. Not a team player, liked to take cheap shots, and speaks badly to and about everyone, wouldn't have him in my restaurants.
​ @nyrea8163 here's the thing that you need to ask yourself ..how and why would they have control over a grown son's money? Because the son is an idiot...so they took it to make a business, because even if someone else is running it, it's making money for a son who can't manage on his own.
​ @nathancausby4406 no...when the grandpa died they all inherited his money..but the parents had control because their son is an idiot.
 @carolmullins  "here's the thing that you need to ask yourself ..how and why would they have control over a grown son's money?" Because if you had paid any attention, they stole his money before the restaurant opened. Which was over three years before this was filmed.  "Because the son is an idiot" You're clearly a subject matter expert, considering you can't calculate 20 - 3.  "it's making money for a son who can't manage on his own" Making money? The place was LOSING money.
 @artforz  I did pay attention. 1. He was still an adult. 2. They didn't steal it, the trustee is the LEGAL OWNER. My remarks still stand. Here's why. A trust is created if the beneficiary is a child, and they gain access to that trust when they become an adult. Money is also put into a trust for an adult when the adult is mentally/physically incompetent in looking after their own affairs. The son is not a child, so there are only 2 scenarios that would fit. He's either A mentally incompetent, or B, he willingly went into business with his family, and willingly gave his own money from his inheritance.  As for your "losing money" comment, I'm sure you realize that when starting a business, no one sets out to lose money..all want a successful business.. Not only do I pay attention but I'd wager that I've  written more wills and trusts (including living trusts) than you.
I would never go to their restaurant again if I were one of those yelpers.
Fighting Jen and Alan was good, fighting Daniel/Danny wasn’t really justified, but I reckon he just wanted to get out of that hell hole. And perhaps that was for the best
 @vectorrondon5852  Patisserie, at least in the UK when I was in College was studied in the third year of the Catering courses, you have to know pretty much everything about basic and more advanced cooking before you can learn anything about Patisserie, because it's so fucking hard haha
i gotta friend who is known for talkin shit all the time on games n shit, but what made it worse was that he was better alot of the time. Actually a day one of mine, hes one of my best friends, but my god it sucks sometimes lol. its worse because hes also got a real sense of humor too. i say this all lightheartedly. wouldnt imagine how it would be without him. no homo.
 @salster  being in the kitchen is stressfull and really fucks with your mind when orders and tables are messed up or tickets being confused 24/7 and food not leaving, going missing, coming back, tickets not being removed when food has been sent out. stressfull shit right there, so you have to understand why he is shouting, angry and irritated as hell, ready to throw hands and prozac.
 @carolmullins I know your comment is 3 months old I’m self employed I use one of my dads bank accounts as my tax and normal bills account cos I’m a nightmare with money unlike Danny my dad won’t ever steal my money but in some situations it’s better to trust your parents with some things when concerning money but not in Danny’s case
 @krazyoldkatlady192 that part. He’s a POS for that. His workers are paid in. The spirit of being paid 😂. They’re insane.
 @salster  he wasnt even getting paid lmao. how about you go be in that situation
Too bad it closed shortly after. I hope he’s doing well…❤
I don’t think he would want them to comfort him. I know if my parents did what his did to him. I would tell them to back off, better to have the spouse do it.
She jumped over very tall Gordon to hold him. I saw that too and was impressed. What a great woman and he deserves to have someone like that by his side.
Wendy seemed like a champ, I wonder how it worked out. Poor Danny, dealing with these parents I hope he and Wendy managed to work out.
The parents are narcissists. They don't and can't love another human being, they're incapable of love, like psychopaths.
I'm not a parent but I have people in my life I care about and I CANNOT for the life of me see this human being I raised from a tiny helpless baby, this person with tears in there eyes ask me to please just try and get along with this person I love and just look them in the eye and say "I can't do that." I've had Masks that have had more life in there eyes then that woman. AND THOSE MASKS DON'T HAVE EYES!
Thats why his family hates her. Her girl gives him respect, and if he learns to respecr himself then the parents wont be able to abuse him.
these two, Danny and his gf are obviously on some drugs.
No its childish. They are adults.  Its cheesey af. Its an act to run over to wrap around him like he is 4 years old. He was trying to talk amd express himself. Let him do it even through the tears. It's important. The hug literally stops him from keeping expressing himself. It shuts him up and hinders much needed communication.
@redfo3009  I had not thought about it like that. I agree and will be more aware of how I comfort from now on. Sorry for the weird syntax. It's hard to get a true compliment across in comments.
@naydra4210, yea as soon as I saw her act like she was about to choke and then she "What is that strong taste I'm tasting...." I was like, IT'S CALLED FLAVOR!!🤣
​ @zenithperigee7442  Gen, please. I really want to take her out for hot wings. I think I would feel a lot of joy watching her eat some mild hot wings. Also that is so entitled.
“She in not a clown, she’s an entire carnival” dude I’m stealing this one
 @longdong3889  not sure what that means but don’t feel so offended. Im half white, as a matter of fact, i only know my white side of the family, was raised with only my white side of the family. Never met my black side.. so i speak from experience. A lot of white people don’t season their food..
​​@Rosierx1 Never met em? lmao what a shocker. Might be better to identify with the people that raised you vs. the ones that don't care if you're alive or not
 @comicgnicht9698  Yeah if someone calls me a clown I'm say that "Well if I'm a clown than you're an entire carnival"
The entire episode I noticed her body language, it looks like she has a vendetta against the meat magician. Just look at her face. She is just as horrible as Alan. She blames everyone else for her inexperience and crappy palate, and brings everyone down with her and Alan. Those two deserve everything that came to them, especially Alan. What he did to his family is unforgivable. One episode where the owners are crippling themselves without noticing.
 @Syvern.  i know right, so funny 🤣🤣🤣 you’re SO cool !
 @3xeplodng_3agle_studios  You still care what people type like? Damn (I agree though)
 @mambutuomalley2260  not really. I just despise purposeful stupidity especially from my own people when we (referring to ancestors) were held down and disallowed from even being able to be proper or even educated in the first place. For us now to just piss it away because we didn't have to struggleor die for it. So why should we appreciate it, right?   It seems like a lot of people forget all the good shit we have, that our ancestors fought for and died for. and waste that focusing on being victims forever whining and crying, spewing idiotic thoughtless nonsense, and fighting with everyone and each other. Its a waste. All just to go around acting "woke" and not changing a damned thing. It isn't even just "my people" though if I'm being pragmatic. So idk.   But in short no. Its not the typing as much as what that form of "speech" represents.
 @3xeplodng_3agle_studios  Since you felt the need to type all that as an answer to my ironic comment I've got a tip for you: chill more.
 @mambutuomalley2260  I am chill. Think about this. Had I said it, it wouldn't have seemed that long at all. Typing makes our sentences look and take longer to get through than just speaking.
she is 64 years old, have some mercy cries in fake 64 years old karen tears :'(
 @mitchellfitzgerald8220  Not just "standards" .... the taste of complete and utter defeat. She didn't like it, lmao.
I feel so bad for Gordon having to listen & deal with these maniacs. He looks like he really doesn't want to be there in a lot of segments, like he regrets they chose this  restaurant/family.
So sweet pies I am white like flour and I cook very flavorful, lots of spices and mostly crowd pleasing. Please stop being racist, skin color doesn‘t make a bad cook, growing up with microwaved 3min dinners and lack of interest from your parents to teach you stuff does.
Yet she ate the improved burgers, Gordon made and liked it
I guess he knew that either. He had visual proof of GR loving his food. Dude got a job in no time
I feel for David it sucks when someone degrades, disrespects your job even when you really know you are good at it cause of experience and personal work ethic  Basically a good worker just in F up company
When Gordon is around crazy things happen. If he came into my house I wonder if I would spontaneously start admitting to felonies not even I knew I committed.
📠 When I saw this many years ago, I was like, Judge! I'd like to present exhibit #1.
I think it’s breach of fiduciary responsibility at least. Perhaps fraud. Definitely a crime.
Unfortunately, it's not felony embezzlement when the father had legal access to the account.
 @Alphadog343  I call it justifiable homicide. I can't even imagine what I'd do if my dad did that to me. He never would though since he was a great man that loved me. This guy was a turd.
 @SwagSwagSenate  he work as a pastry chef in a local restaurant. He's less stress, more happy and ,most of all, get paid on time.
It’s a bloody burger. Any five year old could cook that. This guy‘s sitting round there whining instead of taking care of his kitchen. When dinner service arrived, he screwed up big time, and none of the owners can be blamed for that. They may be a total mess. But David‘s a fraud all the way.
 @christiangwenner6384 but David was following the owner’s recipe also it was proved that he could make burgers but it had to be his own recipe plus I don’t think it would be good if the managers had hired a fraud it would also add to the terrible reputation this place has
Rewatching these I saw that chef's face and immediately recognised him and thought "isn't he the guy who's legitimately good but gets shit on by the owners?"  It's such a rare but vindicating thing to see in these restaurants where the chef ISNT a cocky lazy bastard and IS a legitimate good chef who's finally able to shine once the clueless owners are told to stop wasting his potential and let the man cook
 @ellon1100  😅 I sure know that preparing a halfway decent burger doesn’t make you a chef.
​ @christiangwenner6384 i think gordon ramsay knows more about food than you do bro
 @christiangwenner6384 You’d be surprised how many people can’t cook to save their lives.
 @thatsubnauticadude8322  And they watch all these shows and make fun of the people in it, instead of just taking an old school cook book and prepare an old school meal any other day. And eventually evolve from there. It’s so easy and so much fun.
​ @christiangwenner6384 i do that sometimes, it's fun. It's easy to cook something you like but cooking something others will is difficult. Cooking is one of those things that's easy to learn but hard to master.
The chef has waaaaayyy more talent than he's given credit for!! Hope he can find a position where they appreciate his talent!! This guy and his psycho wife have absolutely no idea what they're doing!! Wifey can't understand why the chef doesn't like her - I wouldn't like the way she treated me or talked to me either!! I've only been watching the video for 5 minutes and I don't like her either!!!
Do you think this owner just woke up one day and said "Hey honey, I think I'll open a restaurant!! I don't know a damn thing about cooking, but we'll just wing it. It'll be fine!!" Yeah, that worked, didn't it!!!
After the renovation, the owner swears that he will not change anything! So please raise your hand if you actually believe that nothing will be changed. I give him 3 months at best!!!
Yeah and he fn quit I wanted one of those burgers
I know some people only like watching these episodes to see Ramsey get mad and yell but I do enjoy it when they show him appreciating someones   abilities and recognizes it's the owners fault
He should have stayed in his father’s business instead of marrying that witch. And then stole from his own son. Awful people.
That's why he got that check and dipped I'm sure he got a better job
I hope he submits that clip along with his resume when applying for jobs
if gordon ramsay told me i made a delicious burger i would burst into tears on the spot
 @__-fi6xg you try working for people like that and tell me how unproblematic it is lol
 @rapidmagic0705 ya it’s his fault for being angry for not getting paid and being 💩 on while also NOT GETTING PAID, they were lucky to have a chef who comes into work for free
That was so funny 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂I was looking everywhere for this comment
That’s like driving a car without a driver license and car insurance but with the Lords Blessing and  “ Jesus take the wheel”😂 they’ll be fine
Pretty sure that kind of BS wouldn't hold up in court.
She's from Poland which isn't Holland. Holland isn't even a country.
 @endoema6909  That's what I said! Pay attention! And I am far from being 'your guy'!
 @liuzhou  ah shit sorry, tapped on the wrong comment lmao. No need to stress
 @number.2  There is no country in the UN called Holland.  There is no country in the UN called England.  They are not sovereign countries.  They are regions, inside of a sovereign country.
 @Locutus  ah, my mistake, My volume was low, I’ve fixed it now!
 @Adam-gq7gk  umbrella (I'm editing this because I didn't mean to say "umbrella"  frigging auto-correct  --  so, um, no, I didn't,  Adam.  Turn on your cc - she says Poland.  Also,  I did delete while I was typing my first answer but only to rewatch the time she says "Poland" to make sure I heard correctly.   I would advise you to do the same.  ✌
 @number.2  No it isn't. Holland is part of The Netherlands - not all of it. It's like calling the UK, England. Wrong!
 @liuzhou  yes that’s true, but nowadays everyone sees them as the same thing
 @number.2  The Dutch don't. Aren't they part of everyone? I don't. Am I not part of everyone? You are still wrong.
 @number.2  Nah if someone says they are from holland they are reffering to a reigon in the Netherlands which is famous Amsterdam, Rotterdam those bigger cities. If they arent from within that reigon they will just say the Netherlands.
 @Locutus   The Uk is made up of countries inside of a Sovereign State wheras Holland is a reigon the country of the Netherlands like West Yorkshire in England for example would have been a better comparrison. So you cannot  say the countries that make up the sovereign state of the UK are reigons like holland, It's not at all the same... England, Scotland, Wales and NI have their own political systems overall controlled by England's Parliment and they are all indeed independent countries, unlike holland which is the equivilent of like Sussex in England.   I dont know why the UN was nessicary either. LOOOOL
 @liuzhou  cool but when i said everyone it was an exaggeration, the majority of people see holland as netherlands
 @number.2  and they are wrong! are you just here  to spread ignorance?
 @Locutus  The official name of the country is the Kingdom of the Netherlands. King Willem-Alexander is the king of the nation. Holland actually only means the two provinces of Noord-Holland and Zuid-Holland. However, the name Holland is often used when all of the Netherlands is meant.
 @liuzhou  I think many Americans probably think Gordon is English cos to be fair to them he does sound more English than Scottish. He is certainly very much British tho... and he comes across as a proud Brit!
And it's not even true that she is from Poland - in one of her posts she mentioned her parents "real New Yorkers since generations" so she obviously just says whatever comes to her mind to justify herself and for some reason in her crazy mind Poland and mushrooms come together xD
Dont worry we banished her from the country after seeing this episode, she needs to find a new nationality now
- She loves seeing people getting blamed - She's jealous of the chefs burger
 @kevinprior3549  but its not... Holland is a Part of the netherlands.... Greetings from germany, right between the Netherlands (Holland) and Poland 😂
 @sisi3565  I came here to say this, she's clearly one of those people who think they 'are from Poland' because their grand-grandmother was from Poland. I'm Polish and I can confirm no actual Polish person would say that mushrooms are important to them because they're Polish xD this is just ridiculous
 @Kate-bg2fn   my thought too. Even though I’m not Polish, I’ve never heard of any of the Polaks say that where I live xD
 @number.2  Holand is a part of the netherlands not another name for it. While it is thrue that many languages in europe use holland and the netherlands interchangably while  speaking of the country, even in those languages it is incorrect.
+ she smiled through his husband's story of stealing a quarter million dollars from their son
​ @liuzhou  she said shes FROM POLAND NOT HOLLAND or the Netherlands! PAY ATTENTION MY GUY. Or get off the Internet.
There is no such name is Polish like Jen nice lie number one.  2nd lie is that mushrooms are important, come on now    nice joke.
 @whotf888  pleased knowing her husband stole a huge amount of money from their son, sounds quite polish 🤑
I think she said she was from Holland. The blonde hair would make me think so.
What a disgrace... She's American, NOT Polish!!! Americans (AEAL TO YOU!!), stop telling people you come from somwhere where you are clearly NOT from, and stop claiming other nationalities. Embrace YOUR OWN! Burgher, Poland.??? NO! Unless you go to McDonald's... Sad. Polish burgher does NOT EXIST really.
She said about an Italian burger right? Because the polish netherlands are about to be 64 years old. Don't you think that it is important to germans, huh?!
 @liuzhou  You are really high-strung man. YOU SHOULD BE ON PROZAC. Don't make me jump over the table.
HEY! Stop picking on Jen! She knows her stuff! She's from Poland, thus she knows everything about mushrooms. She's 64, thus she knows everything about anything! She knows what's rare, what's medium, well done, badly done, not done at all. Jen knows!
It doesn't matter if she's from Poland youngsters don't like mushroom either way
 @TrondelagianPatriotsriseup  I'm just joking but yeah no one gives a shit about mushrooms. I'm from Poland so I know
 @btsforever5074  no one gives a shit about mushrooms in poland? you couldn't be more wrong..... autumn comes and everyone fights over mushrooms in the forests
I'm from Poland and I swear we are not all 64 yo
 @OddSpec01  Good for you.  Not sure why you're laughing but have at it 😁  Also, as a Dutchman,  Breda should mean something to you.   ✌
She might claim she's from Poland but on behalf of Polish community I say, we do not accept her. We'll leave her with the Americans.
@liuzhou  England is part of the united kingdom, as is Scotland,Wales & N.Ireland,but we are our own countries too.
@Kate  I dated an American for nearly a decade,who aparently was of German/Irish. I assumed grandparents were the immigrants. I found it ridiculous to find out because way back in the family tree their origins were these. All Americans (except native Americans) are from somewhere,as Australia is. Ridiculous!!
How she can be from Poland if hers name is Gen. There is no name like that.
 @number.2  no it’s not. North holland and south holland are regions in the netherlands
She’s American. Everyone in America claims to be “from somewhere” because of a grandmother’s cousin twice removed.
She literally should have been named Karen instead of Jen xD
Bro she has the audacity to say that just because she's old that means she don't control the kitchen when that's what she did
Important!  - Her heart hurts  (This is a joke. Not meant to be taken serious. ^^")
 @kevinprior3549  i agree with you !! as a true scotswomen !!!
And her husband of 34 didn't stand up for her! 😆
-shes obsessed with getting in the way  -she loves fries & plates  -shes annoying
Holland is often used as a Nickname for the whole country. Their national team is a good example.
And that she is facing a bully who is abusive 💅
I am from Poland to and I am ashamed because of her😑
She's also facing a bully that has been abusive of her.
And there is a strange strong taste in the Chef David's burger,which chokes her on a single bite.😅
She is from Italy, likes sicilian cannoli, and is fascinated by elephants 🐘.
 @number.2  Holland is just a part of Netherlands. Netherlands are incorrectly called Holland sometimes.
Insulting to have her as Polish ppl representative. But it's common practice to seal kids inherited or gifted money by parents. I'm not surprised..
​ @number.2 nuh Uh. Holland is a Part of the Nether...Lands. I...think... I'm Not 100% Sure, but i did have a...Not a friend, an enemy from the netherlands, and He constantly Said: im from Holland, but that wasnt true, He was from Amsterdam, which isnt in Holland.  Yeah, im very smort.
​ @blakeg4166 woah woah, calm down, other people already corrected him, No need to shout now.
​ @missABR1 No it isnt. The UK is a country. England ≠ UK
​ @AceYodA Jen i think is Joanna on Poland...and she is insane xD
She calls Chef David a "bully", but SHE'S THE BULLY!! She's nasty, incredibly rude, and extremely controlling. That idiot owner wrote a book?? Did anyone buy it (besides himself and his wife)??
​ @lindseyschmalz - But she should be!! I feel bad for the son - they just stole his money and think nothing of it!
Correction:  She is from "Poland". She is American with Polish roots. So she is not from Poland.  I can say that I am a German because I was born and raised there.
She's been married for 34 years She doesn't wear a chef's hat
This is the craziest comment section. I'm expecting Leonid Breznev to bang his shoe on the table!
Things we will soon know about Jen. She is backrupt, she has no customers in her restaurant.
literally her own redeeming quality is pulling her husband away from a girl saying don't yell at her. You know shes been hurt. Still.
- She may have a slightly less smelling mouth than her husband according to her son´s decision to let her host instead of the father at relaunch.
 @Locutus  - The problem lies within your own definition. There are sovereign countries and countries that are not sovereign. England, Wales and Scotland are countries, but not sovereign. Holland is the collective term for North Holland and South Holland, both being provinces of the Netherlands.
She is acting like a victim; she has berated her staff for no wonder how long and not paid them aka stealing from them and when they bite back she plays victim to have others fight her fight or she'll run away hoping to make a fuss 😤
Yeah, she is from Poland like I am from the moon. I don't know why yanks can't just say they are from the US instead of where their great grand parents are from
 @Locutus England is a country. Great Britain or the UK - United Kingdom, is a region (England, Scotland, Wales and a few islands) to be that strong and wrong…
MY OC IS STRONGER! HE CAN BEAT HER, GOKU and NARUTO ALL AT THE SAME TIME.
What do being Polish have to do with mushrooms 😂 I know a lot of Poles, they cook well, meat and veggies perfection but not a mushroom country 😂 I Studied there for three years and I know that Woman is as Polish as USA Born Italian descent speaking only english claims being Italian 😅 Ridiculous.
🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣 The medium rare girl in there also made ke spit my water out!!! LMADO!
 @Locutus    You shouldn't overwhelm the Americans with geographical facts now 😀
​@treoui8739 Does she? She was just rightfully angry at all the shit her boyfriends parents put him through.
 @Sam-gs8iw  i agree, but she still seems like the mother 2.0 ... She has the crazy eyes
Don’t yell at a woman  Wendy: “I love it 😅”  😂😂😂
Yeah. The girlfriend was like you guys took the money I was going to clean him out for when I eventually married him and divorced his ass.
Then he says to think a father would do that to his own son.. refering to his father 😒
Gen is a liar "Not that powerful" Girl you just controlled David like in the first minute in the video
Despite admitting having a terrible control freak as a father, he still inflicts this to his own son. I swear the lack of self-awareness is stunning.
fun fact the reason he got so much money from his grandfather is because he was a mob boss
Obvious  sociopaths  or psychopaths, his publisher obviously  took that 250k...
and the he says he does not why his son hates him
Father is a complete scumbag, I'd hate him too if he was my father.
And he has the audacity to say he doesn’t know what he did to his son 🤨
 @ThisBritishShark not just that she is an owner, owners can fire someone for not listening to them since they write the cheques and we all know how important a job is now a days when it’s so hard to find a job after the fact so many people hate their boss but are basically forced to deal with it in order to be able to live
How did 2 inept parents raise a son  with sense.?
U gotta give the some credit. He literally just realized "oh, I admitted I was wrong and my situation improved." Progress is progress.
Describes how he stole 250k from his son. Also him: I have no idea why he resents me.
I first saw this episode when I was like 13-14 and until this day the most prominent things I remember about this episode was Prozac, diet Prozac and the father had horrible breath and was a thief.
you know its a scorcher of a burn if it shocks gordon
I'm happy for Daniel! Being manipulated, stolen from is horrible especially when they're your parents. I hope he is doing better now. Appreciate the update.
Speak no ill of the dead they say. But this jackass fucked up his son's life for no reason.Hope the son is doing well now
That is so sad. It happens to all of these restaurants. I wonder if he forgave his father if he had to sue him
Thanks for the update. I really hope the son got his money. Although I doubt it. I can't help but think it was probably somewhat of a relief for him when his father passed.
Same thing happened to me with my mom. She took all my money to open a business too without my permission. I am suing her as well. Pray for me to have the same fate as Daniel
Was she cremated, and was she taken out of the oven medium rare?  It's what she would have wanted.
Whether not weather which tells us if it’s going to be sunny or raining etc. 😂
Yeah I give this restaurant a few months.  They act nice for the show but you can tell their personality is not going to change.  As a result, you have a make-up for disaster.
hope Daniel got his money back, dude got screwed so hard
​ @waverlyearp34 I'm not sure if you are actually wanting prayer but I've put you in my prayer book so that I can pray specifically for a positive resolution for you repeatedly. Stay strong and true to the person you are.😊
i knew it what happend that they all fall back in old habbits. its nice for the camera to have some happy ending shots, but dude, they are programmend since babys with this behavior
​ @waverlyearp34 My parents were going to lose their house and asked my pemission to use the money they had put aside for me.  It wasn't a lot of money so I didn't mind. When my father died my mother was sorting out her will and asked me if it was okay to leave the house to my daughter.
I also believe between after the filming and before the airing of the episode Burger Kitchen had been taken over by new tenants. I can only assume the family sold the Restaurant.
He swears that he's had celebrities eat in his restaurant and they loved his food!! Well why didn't they come back, bring their friends, or even blog or vlog about your place?? Why did you call for Chef Ramsey's help?? Why did you steal $250,000 from your son?? Yeah, that's what I thought!!! HUSBAND AND PSYCHO WIFE FAILURE!!
 @mariahillenbrand8396 I actually have a theory about the celebrity bit. So fun fact: the actor for Jigsaw was a client of Allen, who worked in the film industry as a manager of sorts. Their’s actual pics of Tobin Bell and Allen together eating at his restaurant if ya wanna take a peak at them! So my theory is that what he was saying was partially true, that he had a famous actor eat at his place, it’s just not the whole story. Embellished heavily.
I kinda want to know what happened to that chef who had actual talent lol
So he sued them because they ended up going back to their old ways and ruined the business they forced him to have. Such an unnecessary mess that negatively affected their relationship. Sad
Danke, ich bin froh das ein paar Leute in den Kommentaren Updates geben! Das ist immer sehr interessant! Liebe Grüße 🌞
With old bats it could not work....the chef made a great call leaving them at that point
He sued, he won, no way in hell he got paid.
 @Moistnapkin862  Same, would like to know if he went on to work in a successful restaurant that recognized his talents and allowed him to flourish and live up to the name he had prior before coming to this burger joint.
Thanks for letting us know cause those are terrible parents hope the son is doing good now
 @waverlyearp34  No matter what happens, you are stronger than her. You have integrity, you are a good person, and you know you are worth so much more than this. Hold firm to your belief in yourself and you will come away with way more than you ever thought possible. You deserve it.
Not really an update but some added info, the grandfather in this episode is Abe Saffron, a notorious Australian crime lord. Allan is his son and Daniel is his grandson. His father is believed to caused the death of at least 8 people, 6 of them children. Allan said this of his father after his death “my father was a visionary and the founder of the modern entertainment industry in Australia, providing fabulous clubs, pubs, gambling and sex to the public – all of which is legal today.” So no wonder he had such a unique perspective on theft XD
​ @Keanuthelegend Somebody should ask Tobin Bell if he remembers whether that burger was good. He probably doesn't, but it would be really funny if he was like "yeah, it sucked."
How can he sue for the 250,000 if the dad claims he doesn’t have any money?
 @willyterrazas693  Because he would have to pay it anyway that’s how the law works…he owes money so he has to work or get it from somewhere
Getting awarded the money and actually getting it. I hope they gave his money back. Saddest show ive watched. His dad wanted to socialize. Could tell hed never stop. Why didnt he go to dentist and see about bad breath.
I'm so happy he got his money back, what his father did was criminal
Thank you for this update. I often wonder what happened to some of the people and restaurants and at least for this family I know now. Thank you again!
In a further update, Alan’s dad in Australia actually left all 5 grandchildren 1 million Australian dollars each, a bit over a million US
​ @willyterrazas693 if he dont have any money to pay the sue that another issue, the proof is there, Alan stole his son's money, what a pathetic
Thanks. I specifically come to the comment section on all the kitchen nightmare videos looking for an update on the business. Thanks for taking the time, seeking and sharing this information.
Oh thank god! I was so worried he won't sue their ass.
 @owenmulrooney4751 if the sales and reviews were good at the time, getting out was probably a smart move.  I wonder if the lawsuit afterwards was to get the son's share of the sale, since they tried to exclude him from the paperwork.
 @haloimplant7678  That a good question, all I know is a month before the episode aired that the restaurant went under new management, there was new menu and staff.
I'm sad his dad died.  I'm glad he was able to get this money back though
Hopefully the girlfriend didn't do him dirty in the mean time.
Definitely don't want people dying or anything like that - but, it will be the ultimate justice if Alan left Daniel sufficient money in his estate to pay for what he stole.
Why do so many of these restaurants revert back all of Gordon’s changes as soon as he leaves
 @oghash4912  they said he had really bad breath, that’s often a lesser known sign of heart disease
That's sad. I was hoping Daniel was able to keep the parents at bay and run it properly to recoup his money.  Poor guy- how awful for him.
Thank you king, really wish there was more comments like yours on this show😭🙏♥︎
I figured...a leopard can't change their spots that easy! Alan had the same abuse as a child, but had to keep it going and control everything. I assume he took back power Glad Daniel sued, and won!!
 @waverlyearp34 Best of luck to you! I hope you win your money back!
 @GamerModz123  Yes, he was a crook alright, and his son wasn't far behind in taking monies from his son, Daniel. Abe was a big time criminal but lived till he was 86. His partners in crime included some very high,and prominent police and OZ gov't officials.
​ @drummersnare6276 omg I am a relentless grammar and spelling corrector. Is that bad? And did I spell corrector right?
 @nancyjones6780  It’s always good to use correct grammar so you don’t sound like an idiot.
​@LikeaPaul  also fun fact, the business Alan's Father wanted him to inherit was the mafia
OH MY GOSH HE SEUD THEM LET’S GOOOOOOOOOO I’M SO HAPPY
​ @ibjensen8626  I doubt it. I'm sure that they weren't on speaking terms after that
In the end, The realist one won. Glad for Daniel. Hope him and Wendy are doing well after that. Can't say the same for Gen. 🙄
I was about to say... After hearing about Allan stealing his son's money AND witnessing his + his wife's behavior.  No way in hell that people like THAT can change properly!   The part about "They are deleting the 5 star reviews", that is just a load of bs and a red flag to me. (In the sense that if you believe that someone is fucking up your reviews 'cuz why not' and NOT KNOW WHY you are actually getting bad reviews in the first place? Fucking bs)  I'm glad that business no longer exists (as mean as that sound... You cant force someone into this dream someone else created and expect it to succeed). Im happy for Daniel for sueing his parents for the stolen money.
 @bludaizee24  I'm sure the son got all his money, plus interest, from his father...  He got money and/or other assets of like value...
 @thedrunkenprof4764  no, his burgers are being served in the void, with New Coke!
​@HoriaNeagu  well did they take him out medium well for jen?
I no happy for Daniel. His parents looked like the adams family.
Daniel may have won his court case. But did his parents pay him back? Just because he won doesn't mean he got his money back.
"*whether or not" "weather" is if it's going to rain or be sunny
I was thinking.. how is Gordon Ramsay turning around two narcissists in two days?!!!  Oh wait..  narcissists know the game..  shift gear, always come out on top..   make the apologies, suddenly say the right thing..   all manipulation.  Perhaps Daniel needed see the parents given one more chance through Gordon to finally realise who they are
Wild than the episode and tysm this information is really update everything we question
And it seems like Chef David is currently a successful chef. It's either he has his own business or is a chef in a hotel (there's two of them and they both look a like with each other so IDK who's the real chef David)
David and the girlfriend wear the same style hat...  Weird 🤔
🙏🏽 THANK YOU… all I wnat to hear is the son sue his dad.
Wait so the parents actually had money to pay the son after lawsuit? lmao
Good for Daniel. Anyone who steals money from their own children, especially THAT FUCKING MUCH, does not deserve easy forgiveness.
 @teddyholiday8038  it just shows that people don’t change, but only how they behave when the cameras turn on
what I would love to know as well is if his gf ever been to rehub
 @DothyBo but he’ll probably never get that money back, his dad is dead and now he has to struggle between dealing with his mom’s manipulative ways or feeling the guilt of cutting her off
Good on my boy Daniel! Bro cooked! Good riddance to the parents! I hope Daniel is doing good.
Honestly this is the best possible outcome. Danny gets his money, the restaurant he never wanted is gone, and his abusive father is out of the picture.
Best thing that could've happened is the restaurant closing down, Danny suing for the money he had stolen from him and disowning his parents. Hopefully he's done all of that because they were awful, unintelligent people.
​ @teddyholiday8038  Change is hard and a lot of people revert back to their old way of doing things because it's just easier. They would need to have someone overseeing them for at least three months for them to get accustomed to the new menu.
​ @LovetteKourt Just because he won the lawsuit doesn't insure he will actually see any money.
And Jen is still a medium rare girl to this day.
Is Daniel still with his girlfriend? She had his back, when she stood up to his parents, that's a good thing in that toxic family.
The book is about his gangster father who in Australia was nicknamed Mr Sin. No doubt the inheritance that Daniels grandfather left him was from that same person.
Err…  You honestly think that Ramsay read the book? His staff read it for him and made note of one or two crucial points for him.
@beautifulw999 Lol for real. There’s absolutely NO WAY Gordon even opened that book.
 @CorporalGrievous93 lmao there’s a .00001 percent chance he read it. Especially till 4am😂
probably a production assistant read it outline certain points.......it's scripted guess to a point so...
@ I guess you're right, but Gordon is still a sweetheart...
It was actually a good book and a real look into the life of a Mobster. You should read it before making a dumb comment.
 @beautifulw999  People only see what the tv shows them. They never actually think to themselves that if you look behind the scenes these "celebs" are some of the most wicked people on the planet. Reminds me of how JESUS described the Pharisees by saying the outside of the cup is beautiful and inviting but the inside is rotten and gross...JESUS said it a lot better I'm paraphrasing of course but I can tell from your comment that you already know what I'm talking about. Backwards world we live in.
If somebody ever told me that I was working in the "spirit of being paid", I would say, "then you should pay me in the spirit of work."
When Alan said, "How can you love someone who stabbed you so much in the back" when referring to HIS father my jaw dropped. He is doing the EXACT same thing to his son. I'm sure there's something in there about repeating your father's mistakes.
steals 250k of son’s inheritance  “I don’t know why my son resents me!”
I love how Jen is crying victim after David showed his true cooking skills whilst Alan is just chewing on his burger 🤣
When she starts coughing and complaining about the strong flavour of the burger, I start to feel a rage like I can't even put into words.
The fact that Alan thinks he's so important that random Yelp users are ganging up on him is solid proof of his narcissism. The fact that he stole $250k from his son and wasted it on a crap restaurant, is inexcusable. The mother couldn't care less, she just needs to feel she's right at any cost. These are some truly sick people.
Chef David was an absolute LAD. He made this episode one of the most entertaining there has been. He also had that cockiness and tenacity that makes for a good chef! (Gordon gave his burger a 9/10 I mean come on!)
Gen is so passive-aggressive manipulative. The fake choking, the fake yawn...
Man really said he stole $250k of his son's money with a straight face lol.
Gen was smiling while her husband talked about STEALING the money from their son, they find ZERO wrong with their actions and I hope  their son is doing good now
“You’re drinking again” LMFAO he went straight for the jugular as he should
Dropped my jar when the dad showed Ramsay his book about his evil and controlling dad when he is even worse. Imagine going through the proces of writing the book and not remembering how it hurt him - to steal money, time and dreams from his own son. Some people have 0 self-insight.
David continuously screaming at Gen that she desperately needs Prozac is hilarious
Daniel fired David unfairly. He went in on him too. Honestly if they pushed the parents out and kept David the Burger Kitchen would have done great!😂
THE CHANGE IN GEN'S EYES WHEN GORDON TOLD THEM HE LIKES THE BURGER IS PRICELESS
Yo the fact that he talked about his dads breath AND had proof sent me to kingdom come😭
"I'm facing a bully who's been abusive to me" projection at it's finest lol
You can see how much the head chef’s support staff respect him. It is sweet.
When Jen asked Daniel what he wanted 37 times in a row, i was really hoping he would say "i want the 250k back that you stole from me."
I'd say "Well let's see what the Labour Board will say about the spirit of getting paid" LOL
If you pay me in spirit, then I'll show up to work in spirit
Better idea, sue your boss for the wages your owed & then some because he'd have the nerve to pull that bullshit on you.
You've said it for me. That scene was jaw-dropping. Alan and Gen don't hear themselves. I hope they watched this.
 @BandNerd6000   Ikr Alan’s dad How can a farther do that to his son?  My blunt Neurospicy Ash would say.   “You did the exact same thing to your son you took 2050k out of your sons trust fund and bought a restaurant without telling him until afterwards”.   “Then your son was forced into a business he did not want to do”.  “I guess the apple doesn’t fall far from the tree”
And the way she smiles when Alan confesses he stole it 🤮
And having the gall to complain about his own father.  What a loser.
​ @mikea5923 complain? The guy wrote a book and then lived it. I felt sorry for the young man.
That was all of it, i thought it was just some
Nothing worse than a gaslighter 'No I don't" "No I didn't" His book is probably full of that, he refuses to listen to anyone, that must be so annoying
His father really was a bad dude tho one of Australia's most notorious criminals
It's called editing. They took him saying "my son resents me" and "I don't know why" and put them together.
​@nicholasimlach1787 especially claiming that cat food was an Aussie pie! I wouldn't feed that slop to my cat's
The comment I came here to find after he said that 😂😂😂😂
​ @coreybradley8540  yep, this show is all about the drama.. without editing it wouldn't have been this " successful"
Literally  Ya ran your kid for two hundred fifty grand, for all thats holy
​ @H.EL-Othemany I mean, UK version is far less dramatic and edited. Us one must be done be to appeal to it's audience, eh? Regardless, the father and mother are bastards and no amount of editing could make them likable.
yeah, that was a good one.  Fucking clueless that guy...
The irony of how he loathed his father, and he's basically done the same to his son - only worse because he succeeded at stealing the kid's money and forcing him into a situation he never consented to. The dude feels entitled to his father's money so badly that he stole it from his own son.
maybe the son should just SUCK IT UP and improve on himself and the restaurant and play with the cards he is dealt with.
Worst part is he wrote a book about his father forcing him to stay in his business, then he does the same to his son . Best catch 22 ever
did you tell him? " oh he found out eventually"   SUCH BS! I was so disappointed in the parents. talks about how his own dad used him and mistreated him.... says its horrible to do to your kid then does it himselt.
 @brettgofgosky1911  seriously, they weren’t doing anything for anyone other than themselves.
What did the son do wrong. He was robbed.period Son should get lawyer and forclose on restaurant and leave thieving parents homeless on the street
Allan and his wife savilla devil want to blame the business failing on the cook
Wonder how much in debt the business is? Danny's wife has a right to be pissed. Danny's parents are robbing from him.
Eh, I'm 95% sure it was edited to look that way.
Ask him. Open your heart  as to why he feels that way. Also reflect back as to why you feel like that. Flowers in one’s grave, and tears mean nothing. Speak now…..
Yeah, no hope to fix something like that...Too much bad faith and ego or a dramatic low IQ...
 @Mr6ixty4our  “Hey, I just took your life savings for my failing business, I hope you don’t mind. What do you mean I robbed you of important assets that you worked hard to make? SUCK IT UP!!!1!”  That’s how you sound
I started laughing so hard that shi was so funny 😂😂😂😂 23:00
I had the opposite reaction because seconds before, Ramsay said he loved it.  She quickly exposed herself as a fraud.
It’s like someone pretending they found a bug in their food so they can get it for free istg
Bet she’s a type to say black pepper is too spicy😂
I literally don't know a single person who uses yelp when finding a burger place.
​​ @ExprertMoments It's worth mentioning that many of these Kitchen Nightmares episodes are from the late 2000's-early 2010's, back when Yelp was still an exciting new technology and not notorious for being botted to all hell.
He's the common denominator in all of these situations, Alan is a mess and is ruining everything he's involved with.
Alan I bet stole that money thinking he could flip it in 3 months for double
 @mobrocket  Bingo he was going to wait till it made a profit and put the money back
Honestly, what the fuck was he even doing there to begin with?
I mean he literally threatened someone. Tho he was right about the Prozac
​ @DimT670 I mean he was withheld his own hard earned wages whilst being verbally abused by the owners and had to ruin his own name because he can't cook his own dishes he was in the right
​ @TheVibinGoose It almost feels scripted entirely for the episode. He should have left the second he got blamed for raw meat that he was forced to serve because he can't change it. You hear the line "I promised my staff I'd stay" but, sometimes there's more important things than keeping irrelevant promises.
​@bananerna2601  I was a chef for a long time and sometimes you gotta take what you can get. The industry has a huge turnover and sometimes you can walk into work and be without a job when the night before things seemed perfectly fine.
Anyone who has worked in a kitchen KNOWS that things get said in heat. ESPECIALLY when the customers have legitimate complaints. I've said things to owners and managers that would get me shot on the street. And I've had things said back. None of it matters.   Those things being said, the Chef and Son BOTH had more than enough reasons to snap.
​ @DimT670  I mean yes he was kind of a jackass and in the wrong but I've heard way way worse in kitchens, that's honestly not that bad
​ @singingwolf3929 ive worked in a kitchen an I had to quit because of the chef If I worked with a chef like david I would probably still be there because the chef I worked with the day I left him an I almost had words with our fists because he expected me to do 5 ppls jobs while all he did was one fucking thing as we were under staffed and had a massive rush
@khpichu  I get it. I've been there. But, you also understand exactly what I'm talking about. I actually had one where me and the manager took each other to the floor in a struggle. Neither of us held a grudge after, and when I left to become a truck driver the owner (who also worked in the same restaurant) offered to make me a manager as well. Restaurants are CRAZY.
 @TheVibinGoose withheld his wages?   He wanted his money RIGHT THEN AND THERE. That’s not how businesses usually pay the last paycheck. It’s unrealistic to expect a paycheck within 5 minutes of leaving.   He was just being petty.  At his age, he should know how pay is done.  He just wanted to be as difficult as possible, purposely choosing to create a problem at that specific time, in the middle of the business hours, when they were busy.
 @singingwolf3929 stop normalizing that unprofessional behavior. If my staff talked to each other like that, I’d fire them. It looks bad for business and customers CAN hear kitchen staff talking to each other like that. And on top of it, it creates an unpleasant eating atmosphere for the customers.
 @lang-ed3bk  his pay was withheld for 1-2 weeks you can literally watch the video in which the owner even admits to not paying him his wages before he quits
 @TheVibinGoose  ok, but he was still being petty. He was purposely being difficult and petty. It’s unrealistic to get a check right then and there; like I said, that’s not how it’s done. It still takes time to calculate and do payroll. Withheld pay is irrelevant; it doesn’t magically make it faster to do payroll.
​ @lang-ed3bk you dont get to boss and abuse your employees and expect them to wait for their pay. Either you pay your employees or get ready to be treated like shit.
 @sorantohell5096   you clearly missed my point. It’s not about taking their time to pay him; it’s the fact that it takes time to CALCULATE. Payroll takes time to do, you know. You have to do it correctly; there is a procedure.   And either you behave like a normal adult, or get ready to have the police called
​ @lang-ed3bk his food was inedible because he wasn't allowed to do any of his own recipes, did you even watch the episode?
 @andrew33845  the food is still inedible, doesn’t change that fact.   You came at me all personal, like you’re the chef or something. Calm the f down. This show means waaayyy to much to you for you to be so defensive.
⁠​⁠​⁠ @andrew33845  “the food was inedible because he wasn’t allowed to do any of his own recipes”?? Are you serious? he OKed a raw burger. That has nothing to do with him not being to to do his own recipes. He is the head chef; he is responsible for sending out raw food. Yet he got mad and said that people just want to put the blame on him. No, he just wants to put the blame on everyone else but him; he doesn’t take accountability at all.
 @AlissaSss23  Oh, he definitely knew why. Only literal sociopaths would genuinely not understand why stealing a quarter million from someone would upset them.
 @this_is_patrick   Again, he didn’t understand why his son lost all respect for him.
 @mhx5071  His wife is even worst than her husband. Just smirking, lying with full intend, not paying attention when someone wants to help her and supporting her delusional husband.
 @mhx5071  She was so proud which made me so mad when I first saw this show.
I feel sorry for the dude now i see why his grandpa gave him the inheritance and not  his parents because man they are a bunch lunatics its creepy
 @this_is_patrick  I think the father is a sociopath he never shows any remorse and cannot understand why his son resents him hence sociopath he seems to smile at times. Sidenote, just judging by the way they act and react or they must be on crack.
Fail to see why its funny. Its not funny. What sort of father takes money from his child without permission?
 @mhx5071  that was the worst part of it. She's so rude and clearly not fit to be a mother
 @streetridersss8360  from where she came is normal to act like that...;)
He did tell him about it…. Eventually. Or he found out eventually I mean.
 @AlissaSss23  and then said "what kind of father can do such a thing"
Oh no, he didn't steal it, he 'borrowed' it with as a loan under 'the spirit of being paid.'
I honestly doubt he is Australian. The way he acts and the fact he didn't put gravy in a meat pie
The father is dead (died in 2020) and the son moved away after the place closed in 2012.  There's currently a greek place where the Burger Bar once stood.
Also, what I heard is Daniel and Wendy are married and has 2 kids on their own. Daniel also cut down from his family.
this episode is fabricated,everything about it is fake. there is article about it
 @GanerioAditya  It's American reality TV my man. I think everyone already knows that most of the show itself is scripted and fabricated for drama and suspense,  let alone this episode.
 @GanerioAditya  in other news.. water is wet and the sky is blue
 @jimbo_1312  is water wet though, or does it just make things wet and not actually wet itself.
 @ALLMETAL1970  is this one of those brain scratchers like "which came first the chicken or the egg" cuz I'm way too stoned for that.
 @MrSlendyMannn  Well yeah, all episodes are scripted, and that too always the same script. But this episode was of special interest because Alan was supposedly a talent manager in LA, and his main goal on this episode seems to have been to plug that book.
 @jimbo_1312  Chicken vs Egg question only confuses the un-educated( and stoned :P ). Lizards etc were before chickens and laid eggs thus the egg was first :)
@Grimlock I know most of these episodes are scripted but is there any episode which is 100% real? or as close as possible
 @zenmanokfine  well.... I'm definitely stoned so you may well be on to something.
 @waxerstarwarsexplained550  38:54. It's when they're writing the cheque for CHef David but then ask Danny to put $1,000 in their account, which would then be withdrawn and given to David. Wendy snatches the cheque and Jen is just grinning like a mad woman who is revelling in stealing off her son.
and she smiled when david was getting told that its  bad
 @mr.cookedfish9978  theres an episode from the british version about a vegetarian restaurant in paris and I'm pretty sure its real
 @ALLMETAL1970  unless there's only one water molecule, water is being surrounded by other water, thus water is wet
You don’t know why your son resent you because you literally steal his money right under him, you should have consult your son before you do that
Embezzled Daniels money then wants more ($1000) no pay, no title to the restaurant
Allen is like : 👁 👄 👁 wat going on here. Jen is like :😞😞😞😢😢😢 he bully me, me no likey
She's a very manipulative woman. She may be the one who persuaded Alan to stole that money.
 @mr.cookedfish9978  there is this uk kitchen nightmares episode where he goes to this little shabby restaurant owned by a lovely black lady and he eats the food and he's like wow there's so much on the plate it's just piled on, then he eats the food and it's delicious and then he tells the lady how delicious it is and that's basically it i think
Reminds me of my own parents 😔 The best way I can get back at them now is denying them another grandchild
 @MrSlendyMannn  thats not true, or restaurant owners would not start lawsuits against this show... but I wanna give you a chance to prove me wrong so please send the link thats says its all scripted
 @zenmanokfine  you could also say that the chickens were cells before they were actually chickens so the cells which became a chicken were there before there were any eggs
 @GanerioAditya  The show is highly edited to push narratives, actors are put into the restaurants, but I'm certain a lot of the family drama in the show is real.
​@margarethmichelina5146 if you read that so called article (more of a blog post) you'll see that while Kitchen Nightmares always adds stuff for entertainment value, majority of the content is legit and the Saffron's used the show to plug their book and gain traction
 @emerald7537 well am sorry to hear that. But shame the son lost his dad. And no doubt all the money he’s dad sunk into that
​ @MrSlendyMannn  not true. You think Gordon Ramsey would be involved in a fake show?
I'd say, the wife, knew, he was stealing the sons money.
Nah, losing a terrible, toxic parent isn't a shame. I've never understood why people feel like you should always love/value your family, they're people like anyone else and some people are terrible.🤷
It's actually one of the more real reality shows. It's deceptively edited and they try to amp up drama (unlike in the UK show which is more mellow) but it's not scripted.
 @margarethmichelina5146 yeah he sued them for the money stolen and won the case
@MissGreenFingers, the sad truth is that some cycles repeat with little to no deviation.
Eh, dunno if the dad is worse, watched a vid and from what i remember, his dad was a mod boss or something like that in Australia, he didnt wanna be in that, and because he left his dad left him like, a small amount, as opposed to cousins who got millions of dollars(dont quote me one this, this is from memory)  Still doesn't make him good or anything, quite an ass for just, yoinking that money from his son
It's insane how he feels like because he's nice about stealing it makes him more better than ANYONE.
And her not understanding and responding by saying that she’s not on it makes it even better 😂
gen really was so ditzy and just seemed to let whatever happen, happen. just embarrassing
If cooking isn’t what he wants to do, or decides to quit, he will be a great spokesperson for Prozac.
It was funny until he kept saying it like a million times
​​@AtomicTrain  Dude was probably doing drugs.  He looks like he got fired, did a line, and came back to get his check.  But he knew how to make a burger.  And wasn't being paid.    So I hope he ended up somewhere he could do his job properly and got paid for it.
 @tarahayden7553 I don’t doubt it, she has those “dead eyes” no emotion behind them and every negative thing said she’d turn it around to either make the other person look worse or make herself the victim
 @profilenamehello  So it had to be drugs and not just anger that's been culminating?
not really it was just kinda a single cheap jab that got annoying, instead of trying to insult her by making fun of her being depressed he could have been way more mean in a way more effective way by going off on all the ways that family screwed him over
I am now craving the Prozac that is sitting in my house that I thought to be ineffective
Not really. Felt like a cheap shot when there were a million other things he could've actually made fun of her for. Also threatening to beat up the kid was ridiculous, he was right to fire him for that.
I feel like in a better universe David and Daniel are like the peak of boss and employee and prolly best friends next to jalapeño😂😂
the cuts to various customers literally recoiling at the smell 😭 Jesus Mary and Joseph it had to have been strong bc they weren’t even eye-level with each other
When one’s stomach is a literal graveyard, it’s not surprising 🤢
I opened a Yelp account only to comment about just that
You can tell he’s good at his job just from those subtle interactions, from my time in kitchens when cooks and chefs are able to have that kind of dynamic it usually only leads to success for both FOH and BOH
She wasn't listening for an answer; she was trying to badger him into incoherency.  That's the step before the abuser acts all calm and reasonable and then asks "Why are you crying?  You're being so emotional, just calm down.  We're just having a conversation."  It's why I get frustrated with the people who think Wendy jumping to his side is some kind of act or power move; they REALLY do not understand what is going on here.  He just wants his parents to love him, and they don't even know what love is.
ty, for fucking REAL. I was so disapointed. I would sue the shit out of them.
I like sitting in booths 😂 idk why Gordon always gets rid of them, I mean the new decor is still better. ❤ Happy everything is okay for Daniel and Wendy.
The absolute gall of that father.  "Yeah, I stole my son's inheritance money and trapped him into this business. No idea why he seems to resent me"
Gooood i hate how chef David was framed this episode. He cracked under the pressure and snapped, but its VERY apparent how justified he was, just like how Daniel was justified for being a wreck after dealing with the same narcissists all his life. It feels like they want you to feel bad for the parents because "chef david goes after ANOTHER member of the family" like jesus.
I love how gen was crying outside while Alan was eating his “good burger”😂😂😂😂
the moment where jen pretends to be disgusted by David's burger is one of the peak funniest moments of american kitchen nightmares
“Wendy, why are you so nasty?!” Says the lady who stole a quarter of a million dollars from her own son, fell asleep during an important meeting with Yelpers and is one of the most toxic women I’ve seen on this show, just under Amy from Amy’s Baking Company. Those are parents from hell.
I swear. I was teary eyed when Daniel shouted "your killing me" towards his father. I kinda felt it.. the emotions he has.. its hard to deal with people who are narcissistic and manipulator especially if they are your parents.
I legit feel bad for the son he is balding and he was in his 20’s  and that Girlfriend is honestly true material she loved him so much through all these harsh times and even stood up against the parents of her boyfriend who ripped 250,000 $ of him
"What is that strong taste that I'm tasting?" That's called good food, lady.
I love that after their "reconciliation" Alan still gave himself all the credit by saying "its hard for a father to admit his faults to his son, and i admitted it" i was in absolutely disbelief 😂
my favourite line "to think a father would do that to his own son, shocking." coming from the guy who robbed his son for 250k
That chef, for the entire 12 hours he worked while Ramsey was there, is the best character to ever appear in this show.
“my son holds a lot of resentment towards me and i don’t know why” you STOLE HIS MONEY?
"Daniel, what do you want? What do you want? No seriously, what do you want? Daniel, what do you want?" Daniel details everything he wants, even breaking down in tears as he begs for his parents to stop lying "dAnIeL wHaT dO yOu WaNt?"
As much as how Daniel was wrong for provoking Chef David in the middle of service, him breaking down and saying "You're killing me" to his parents was really heartbreaking. You can really see the amount of mental damage Gen and Alan left him with, so much so it reminded me of the time I had said I contemplated of suicide to my father and him replying with "So go do it then!" Hope he is in a much better place mentally after all those years living with such toxic parents.
This restaurant changed ownership in 2011, not long after filming this episode. Daniel sued his dad Alan for unknown reasons. Alan passed away in 2020.
Chef David proving himself a good chef when he isn’t being controlled was the most gigachad move ever.😂
What we know of Gen: - She is 64 years old - She is a Medium Rare Girl - She is not Powerful
“mushrooms are important to me. im from poland” how did i miss that the first time i watched this. she is absolutely INSANE😂
"This isn't about me and you, or you. This is about me and YOU and your NEED AND USE OF PROZAC!"
The second they brought up reviews I had war flashbacks to Amy's Baking Company
like father like son, his dad was a famous crime lord in sydney
And he can’t seem to understand he’s stabbing his son in the back, the way his own father did to him.  Ugh.  I hope between Daniel & his girlfriend seeming like better people, they break that cycle
​ @averycheesypotato You know what they say about apples falling far from the tree? The knife in the back is also long and pierces more than once.
Nah, I see it different. Chef always owned up to his messes, even admitted that he snapped and took his firing without question. Even when he was firing at Old Hag and Thieving Dad during the final pay scene, he had enough clarity to identify the sources of his discontent. I even agree with his last statement: "Meth Heads!" 😅
I don't think he was framed poorly at all, the whole episode makes the parents look terrible I don't get how you got the feeling that you were supposed to be sorry for them.
 @KrikZ32  we get the feeling because poor karen is 64years old you  know.. feeling bad for oooooold people and guilty and stuff...
If it was so apparent how justified he was, then wasn’t he framed well in your opinion? Otherwise you wouldn’t think he was justified
gen? Why on earth would you think Jen would be spelled Gen?
Actually I think Alan was eating his own crap burger, trying to convince himself it was good!
Same. Like, I actually just wanted to punch the you know what out of alan and gen.
Most definitely especially if they've took so much from you and still don't appreciate you , it's sad and very hurtful
 @dennistafeltennis1190  The owner are the worst and most delusional in all the kitchen nightmare. Only pete(the guy that is self taught by European ...) and samy and amy are at least as worst as this burger couple. They had no chance in running anything, not to mention a restaurant business.
 @streetridersss8360  the self-taught guy is not Pete (that is the Pantaleone’s owner), he’s Joe Nagy
 @АлишерМакашев-ж1ш  yes you're right. It was a bad pete and a nasty joe :)
He's a drug addict in real life (him and his girlfriend) and he inherited 500k by sitting around and doing nothing with his life.  The dumb dad was a talent manager in the US who managed the actor for jigsaw (no idea his name) and the son put the money in with them, the dad doing it in secret was made up by them for the show.  I wouldn't feel bad for him. The whole family are incompetent.
 @streetridersss8360  Pete wasn't even bad, just stubborn. There's a reason they spliced his "oh shut up" line and used it like 5 times cos he barely said anything else bad.
 @Sam-yr8ls  Why are you so salty about a kid inheriting very useful money from a dead relative? That's literally how America is built to be the only hope for retirement, is if someone has an inheritance for you. You also are refusing to actually link anything you read, which would've taken only 2 clicks to add to your comment, so I'm saying your source is "just trust me, bro"
 @Henrik_Holst  I know all of that. It's on Google. That's why I said to Google it. I'm not going to source and write everything. There are things about his drug use online, and the chef kept alluding to it.   I know a lot of drug addicts, and unless you know one it's hard to explain, but the son and the junkie girlfriend are absolutely on something 💯
 @Sam-yr8ls  well see that's the problem, it's who makes the claim that have to provide the source for it, just telling people to "google it" is not the proper way to make an argument. Especially since services like google are personalized so you and me will get quite different results from the same search.  E.g none of what I wrote I could find on google, I had to first find Alans linked in page where all of his previous businesses was listed and then do new searches based on that info.  The end result, weather you like it or not, is that people will believe that you just made things up when you tell them to "just google it" (because one could argue that for just about anything, from claiming the world being flat to pigs can fly) so it's also in your interest to provide some sources.  Please understand that this is me just explaining why "just google it" is bad, this is not an attempt of attacking you or anything.
I don't see the point about his balding. It is natural for a lots of men even at that age (including me). That's absolutly nothing compared to beiing ripped of 250,000$ by his own parents.
His girlfriend stood around doing nothing, and only involved when it came to her boyfriends money....
My brother started receding a lot in his 20s, could just be bad genetics
 @Sam-yr8ls  I feel bad for the son but yeah they are 100 PERCENT drug addicts. Wendy is tweaking real bad
I do like him but he's obviously not very resillient, when David says "I'm gonna knock your ass out" and he just starts screaming "you're threatening me!?" and kicks him out. He needs to get some more life experience, look at the stuff Gordon says to people, passions are high in high pressure jobs, just needs to learn quickly rather than stamping his feet because it's his restaurant or he runs the risk of becoming as deluded as his dad when he's older. David is the best guy in this episode imo
Shes with him cuz she wants part of that 250k thats owed to him
@TDPMAYHEM GAMING Except if you look it up, they are still together a decade later and have two kids together.
 @GribbisGibman  Glad someone sees through it. Look at her face during the meeting during 56:00, she shows utter contempt for the idea of the family uniting - obviously has an ulterior motive.
Wendy actually loves her boyfriend. He blubbered completely on multiple occasions and she still supported him. I don't judge either of them. I'm just saying a lot of partners don't stick around for guys going through it.
The crackhead that jumped out of her chair and started throwing her hands in the air when someone raised their voice near her?
 @chubbybunny6975  if that's actually what you think, you live a sad life
 @yoursodumn  It was medium and Gordon said it was juicy and liked it. What the hec are you on about? It looked fucking miles apart from the crap they were making him drum up
He's balding 😂😂😂😂 love how that's the first thing you mention
​ @billwilliams328 You're a guillable person huh? You realize there's years and years of history of this family before this show, you don't know the real story. Also the editors can cut together however they see fit, don't just assume you know everything from a reality tv show, guy.
 @lyndy101  Who assumed they knew everything? Sure like your straw man fallacies. Also, I'm not your guy, buddy.
 @Sam-yr8ls I knew there was something off about him and his gf!!!! I didn’t know if anyone else noticed but She was super fixated on moving around very oddly and twitchy. The chef also had reason to believe that they were also on drugs.
 @He-Man00 I also noticed she was tweaking out super hard. Super easy to tell when you grew up with ppl like that.
 @faelynn3091  yeah. and like you said. I don't think David would keep bringing drugs up without reason. He clearly knew they were addicts.   But hell I'd be doing drugs too if I were them
​ @ParlonsAstronomie Most people won't start balding that young. But stress does many things to the person.
​ @GribbisGibman What was she supposed to do? He didn't know that his parents took his money, his girlfriend wouldn't know.
​ @christopherhill9619 Honestly, David was out of line with that. He shouldn't have said that.
​ @ParlonsAstronomie it links with great amount of stress which he got from getting ripped by his parents and keeping the business afloat
And I’ve noticed to make him feel a little less ‘stand out’-ish, she herself wears a hat indoors. Just a small showing of her support❤️
He never admitted to his son he was wrong for stealing his money.
 @mynindo_660 sometimes people just kinda suck there’s really no need to pathologize everything
 @MemoristCed  labeling a pattern of behavior as a disorder is literally the definition of pathologizing it
Reminds me a LOT of Joe Nagi from Mill Street Bistro and the way he just started insincerely repeating everything Gordon said and patting himself on the back for “admitting he was wrong” and “improving”… and immediately firing his entire staff after the cameras left.
Yeah but he did one thing those father never really do. He admitted and asked for forgiveness.  This dude has balls.   And F u if you think otherwise. You are digging you children's grave. You know people who commit the ultimate self harm? They look exactly like Danny looked.   Admit you did wrong or that you failed. Who gives an f if you were wrong. Everybody cares if you can't face something you did. Because you will do it again. And again. And then it's too late.  Don't forget to hydrate. It's getting warm.
He's literally not though. he NEVER apologized about putting his son through mental anguish.  @psychohazards 
the fist bump when she stormed out after eating the burger😭😭
Nah Sara bring devious with that seafood ravioli and that smirk takes the cake for me, but David is a VERY close second. 😂
They were convinced they were missing something because, after all this time, they still didn't believe they had done anything wrong by stealing his inheritance. It's unbelievable how deluded those two were.
I feel like they’re both narcissists because they don’t care about what the others are saying especially their son
yes thats true but i still hate him for firing chef david cuz its his family problem not the cheffs problem
 @rabihhilal3959  Daniel didn't have to escalate things in the first place, but try physically threatening your boss in any job anywhere and expect to have your job for longer than 10 seconds lol
what an absolutely horrible thing to say to your daughter. I'm so sorry. Toxic parents can really mess with your head
 @mirrrstery  thank you ❤️ it means a lot even just from a stranger. It's all water under the bridge now but still words like that never really get out of your head.
I can't believe that's something you had to hear from a parent 💔 I'm so sorry, I hope you're doing better nowadays!
never in my life have i felt my heart actually ache from what you said. i’m so sorry. i can’t even imagine what you’ve gone through and how someone can be that horrid. i’m so proud of you for still being around. that is pure trauma and i hope your father has/had realize how hard that is to hear. stay strong, man. i’m so proud of you 🖤
 @annam4092  I'm sure you are beautiful and amazing person darling ☮️💜wish you peace and happiness 🙏
I think both Daniel and David were in an awful position at the time, Daniel didn't even wanted working in that restaurant he was forced by his parents and David had to work with Daniel's parents all days. This is what toxic work environments do to people folks.
"Unknown reasons"   I think we all know why 😂
Then 2020 was a good year..hope his wife follows soon as possible!!!
There is nothing out there that said he sued his dad. Alan died on April 19, 2020 of a heart attack.
 @MementoMori-xx5qo  imagine the amount of relief Daniel had when he died
Alan feels as if his son's money is his money.  He didn't want to join his dad's crime empire and decided to stay in the US and marry the crazy polish mushroom girl in the US.  Obviously his dad wanted an heir to his empire and eventually disowned him out of frustration.  His father ( Abe Saffron ) was a famous mob boss in Australia, who died with an estimated $30 million ( 130 according to other sources ) of which his only son Alan only got $500k, his  8 grandchildren each got a million, the rest went to his mistresses and various charities.
It was revelead that he stole even more money than 250k
Oh good...My dad was a disaster and all i felt when i was told that he was dead was like the weight of the world had been finally taken off my shoulders and i could breathe again.
Pretty sure if Alan was my dad I would have had a hand in his passing
tysm for telling me, although alan was horrible as a father, he got better so it's sad for him to pass. ty for letting me know although u commented this 5 months ago.
he sued for breach of contract but the case got dismissed
So not a happy ending after damn  This family was really ripped apart
 Lone Star  I understand that ok, he’s not a great person but that’s just disrespectful
 @Whytrytrywhythatwasjustadream  this is the real world if you think that's bad you haven't seen the worst yet
 @reflectedupon  "I'm not a scumbag cos there's people out there worse than me"?   Hmmmm yeh, about that thought process................
Thanks I was just gonna comment right after starting this video he should have sued so thanks for the info.
 @egggamer1800  given how much they hated, this is expected to happen.
​ @Whytrytrywhythatwasjustadream imagine having sympathy for someone who stole a crisp quarter mil from his own son
​ @alainportant6412 so the kid had at least 750 grand still when he got control of that trust and look at where he was living... what happened to all that money? Your telling me he didn't blow most of it either?   Found money will always be lost money...
 @rorygillmore6555  Certainly, and on top of it, it was blood money, but I mean, after inheritance taxes and all that ( since it came from Australia ) ,  it couldn't have amounted to that much anyway.  He could have bought either a house or a business with that kind of cash, it's really not "that much" these days.    I'm sorry that his grandfather was a dick and decided to give 65% of his $30,000,000 to various prostitutes instead of his family, at least that's what I got  from the story.
​ @reflectedupon just because its not the worst doesnt mean you cant take action against it 😭😭😭
 @Hijkaq  not much if any action can be taken especially if you are talking to someone over comments.
​ @reflectedupon What's to understand? You do not speak ill of the dead.
​@MementoMori-xx5qo  there are literally court records of a Daniel Saffron V Alan Saffron that were filed in 2013
 @MementoMori-xx5qo  Trellis says case SC121318 is Daniel Saffron vs Alan Saffron for a breach of contract in 2013 (it was categorized as fraud). The case got dismissed.
- She found it funny as her husband described stealing $250.000 from their own Son
- She has a vocal tone that makes you lose the will to live.
You can see the crazy looks in her eyes. xoxo :))
-she doesn’t put the salt on -she doesn’t wear a chefs hat - she doesn’t make the pattys
She's a victim She gets jealous while a mitchilin star chef is giving praise to somebody else's work and is obviously better then both hers and the dads crap. She's got a hurt ego, oh she's so hurt The chef is the "bully"
- She felt a good energy from Ramsay and felt comfortable coming back
 @H.K.5  pretty sure she said Holland (please I don't want to be associated with her)
nevermind pretty sure she said Poland now since Poland is known for it's mushrooms but even then, it's pretty hard to hear what she tried to say
- she doesn't make patties - she doesn't hold a knife
She's a disaster.   When someone doesn't agree with her, she's being bullied.
And she cant for the life of her get along with Daniel’s girlfriend
 @midnightwitch606  She was willingly complicit in stealing from her son to keep the business afloat. She’s also a Yes Woman to her husband, blatantly criticising a burger because of who made it and not being fair in her judgement.
She's been married for 34 years  She doesn't wear a chef's hat She doesn't know what Daniel wants
It actually makes sense, as it is one of many European countries where people are not afraid of wild mushrooms, but learn to pick and eat safe ones as children. Not insane at all; you are just ignorant.
It's actually a Polish thing. I had a coworker from Poland and he was very excited about mushrooms.
 @misterbonzoid5623  maybe but you hear people proud of like whole national dishes, I don't hear germans talk about how much they fucking love lettuce
​ @unfunnymeme2570 They should tho, I am getting hungry for some kohlrouladen topped with cranberry sauce. Thanks for giving me the idea for dinner.
I genuinely feel bad for Daniel. Betrayed by his own parents and getting forced into a business he had no say in. I have a feeling they've dragged him into a number of situations he wasn't comfortable with all his life but ruining his 20's when he could have made his own way was just peak toxic. I hope Alan managed to fix his relationship with his son before he passed away and Daniel managed to find his footing in life
5:44 there’s no way this man said he doesn’t know why his son holds resentment towards him after ADMITTING HE STOLE HIS OWN SON’S INHERITANCE 😭
"I took 250K dollars from ym son without him knowing" "my son has resentment towards me and I don't know why"
33:48 "I might be in the wrong, but I'm not gonna let some crackhead yell at me." hahaha I've seen this 20 times probably but never noticed this line. Gold.
Daniel's girlfriend is a GEM. The way she hops over the table to hug him when he was crying almost brought ME to tears.
The hardest part of this episode is the fact that David was clearly the MVP of the whole restaurant. - It's also quite tough watching his cooking being criticised when you can see how much he cares about it.
The two unsing heroes of the episodes are Chef David and Wendy. David for being a great chef and a great boss to his staff and Wendy for being so protective of Daniel and always combative when his parents did some shit against him.
Not only did they steal the sons 250k but they also made sure there was no legal document that shows the son is any part of an owner of this business. They double screwed their son intentionally.
What Daniel wants it's his 250k and his peace of mind. Mom, dad get your own life.
The medium, medium rare and well done hand to face method I have not seen in years. Gordon definitely knows what he’s teaching and if they can’t cope with that they need to shut down and move on
"David, he was like chef david blaine? Like, the magician" "Hahahaha, too bad I can't disappear from here" 😂😂😂
14:05.  The look on Gen’s face when Gordon tells David he didn’t do well is mortifying!  I know she doesn’t like him, but the sheer delight in her eyes is sickening.  That’s her chef!  They should be a team
"I stole a quarter of a million dollars from him. I have no idea why he resents me" lol
My favourite line in this is “how could a father do that to his son” but then proceeds to take over a quarter of a million dollars from his son without him knowing
Imagine stealing $250k from your son and being caught withholding wages in front of Gordon Ramsey and then claiming you’re the one being bullied
Couple things to take from this episode.  •The sons girlfriend is a real one.  •Gen really is a piece of work, I lost it when she started coughing/choking on David’s burger 😂
This is one of the best episodes of reality tv ever produced... absolute chaos and drama from start to finish
and the book from Alan felt like a personal insult to Daniel
I doubt they had a good relationship before he passed, Danny sued his father shortly before his death.
Good in him for suing. People like the parents can go straight to hell with their manipulative bullshit.
Idk man, firing the 1 chef that knows what to do seems like a mistake to me.
 @xanmontes8715 I think it was a win-win situation. They did fine without David, and David got to leave and start his own restaurant and get far away from Gen.
those two clips were edited together like that to highlight the contradiction of the two statements. The second clip is from an interview that was presumably filmed hours or days before the first clip.  Yes Alan is a douchebag but KN is a highly edited show and you should keep that in mind as you watch.
​ @B-fq7ff  the son sued them and won, it's fair to say he did steal $250,000 from his son
and then presenting gordon with the book about his father.. like he isnt as bad as that guy probably was
 @lildutchy  honestly it isn’t, at least Alan didn’t try to drag his son into the Australian Mob like his dad did
Truly a lovely woman😭 I can only hope to be there for my partner as she is♥︎
I hope someday I will find myself a girl like that.
​ @Costanza1459 they look like full grown adults to me. is it childish to care for your partner?
That's what I was thinking like damn, that's the type of person I would want to spend my life with
I'm not going to say 💯 that it was disingenuous, but there were aspects that hinted towards it. Easily missed on a first viewing and also missed because they bicker incessantly. 1) She doesn't leap to Danny until his mother gets closer. Almost like she didn't want Danny to notice. 2) When the mother asks 'What do you want, Danny?' and Ramsays says it's a good question, Danny turns into a blubbering mess. The mother begins to ask the question again and the girlfriend asks the same question (it's very briefly shown). 3) she is obsessive over the money, not over Danny. Her arguments to the parents were not about Danny. They were about his money. 4) Going by number 1, it could be eluded to that she is maintaining the divide between the parents and Danny. Why would she do that? Because if, if, he got his money back, and he was still separated from his parents, then all the money would be theirs (more specifically hers because Danny is easily pushed around). Again, I'm not saying this is 💯 certain. It's speculation, but #1 is definitely noticeable and makes it seem disingenuous which makes me question everything else about her.
She saw the mom positioning herself closer in a chair to her son. It was nice but also a power move.
​@corbin_4738 chiming in as the more abrasive wife to someone with a really shitty, toxic family dynamic: all of those things are shit you kinda have to do when dealing with abusers. My husband actively asks me to put myself between him and his family because otherwise he'll let them beat him down into accepting their abuse. Obviously I don't know if thats the case for them, I'm just sharing some opposite perspective. It is a sensationlized reality show, so there's no telling whats actually going on
 @corbin_4738 I’m not sure this is the case, she’s seen the  restaurant and could probably guess with much certainty that he would never get his money back. Also they got married and had kids after burger kitchen shut down.
​ @corbin_4738 You hit the nail on the head I do not like Danny's girlfriend I hope he broke it off with her
you cant make a correct judgement with cameras around. its equally possible that she did that to make herself look good. a persons true character is found in private, not on a stage.
 @Ntwister  true, but her overall shiftiness, theatrics and supposed care is more than evident. she is black widow
 @Critastic  Bro his dad stole it and spent it on the restaurant he has no money lmao
 @Me_AV  ... see my directly comment above. People projecting their own stuff onto people they don't know. I have been in emotionally manipulative relationships, and Gem is NOT what it looks like.
No. She's nuts. A lot of the fights came from her.
The way she snatched the check out of the chef’s hand in episode 1…😮. It was marvelous
Why didn’t David produce good burgers then after Gordon tasted it ? They were all part to blame
 @sss63763  they have to follow owner's recipe for a dinner service.
Nah, the deeper story there was that the family was making do with a pastry chef because they kept driving all the chefs away.  Even if the recipes sucked; the bloke was still couldn't ensure the basics like the food being cooked properly.  He was out of his depth even though he could cook a decent one-off burger.
 @sss63763 as Gordon has said in another episode: if you’re given shit tools to work with you’ll produce shit food. He was working under immense stress and scrutiny of the owners, not being paid properly same as his other chefs, and working with frozen crap burgers. Could he still have produced decent frozen burgers? Probably but the other factors add to the issue.
 @sss63763   cuz he cant change the recipe he have to work with the recipe that the owner give
We need a partner like Wendy. Daniel is so lucky to have her. Also, David's quitting is the best decision he ever had because nobody can't stand work with those old couple who are stubborn.
David was horrible, he threatened someone with violence and made fun of Gen’s son for being wired.
 @TaraCarmelina  I disagree. He was just completely sick of being in the middle of the the family feud, and not even getting paid to boot. He was awesome to his staff, so you can tell the guy had it in him to be good, but those people, especially the lady was insane.
 @apreviousseagle836  Na he was a snake in the grass, everytime it looked like he might get the blame for something he'd attack someone else, people like that are toxic for team dynamics.
 @oholmes1701  Well, if you had to work with those crazies he had for a boss, I don't know how you'd fare. He cooked a burger and the boss literally, in real time, wanted to upstage him with his "waguu burger" nonsense. And the "waguu" burger looked disgusting. Medium rare doesn't mean uncooked and raw.
 @TaraCarmelina  frustration can make you say a lot of things, the family is dysfunctional, no doubt, and really, you're gonna look past the fact that the restaurant have been through 10 menus, 11 chefs, and 20 servers in just 16 months at the time ?
 @apreviousseagle836  i dont know what alan was on when he said it was a wagyu burger, but “waguu” is supposed to be mostly delicious fat that makes it extremely moist but when somebody said it was dry… damn… it was kind of obvious already, Also all of the burgers looked like mush…
They say the whole “we forced him into it by taking his money” thing in such a blasé way. Wouldn’t they try to hide it?
 @TaraCarmelina  The only thing David did wrong was pushing the Prozac thing. That was fairly low, I agree. However I bet you never worked for\with a bananas family like Saffrons. Trust me pal, the fact that David refrained from smacking Gen with a pan is a miracle.
 @MattRoadhouse  I would be angry too if I don't get paid. Lol
​ @purple_1884  the prozac was nothing wrong in my opinion. He just thought she needed it because of the fact that she is in an disfunctional family witch is a good deduction. Also she most likely really needs it especialy looking at how her husband is a pice of shit to his son and most likely her also. That is not to say that she isn't one as well. They deserve each other the only poor person in this family is their son. Sorry for my bad english not my first language and have a good day.
​ @oholmes1701  mate he didn't to anything wrong so he can't take any blame. As he said in the episode he was an escape goat for the pice of shit owners (with the exception od their son). Sorry for my bad english not my first language and have a good day.
 @Kacszu  He did wrong, he attacked owner-son, for no reason. He even said later that he was probably wrong, but he did not care.
 @jkgf4671  I re watched the episode recently for fun and to re mind my self od what happend there and I need to say that you are partially corect about what you said. Partially being only because he didn't hurt anybody but he did say that he will knock the sons lights out because of how bad he was at his job. Because of that he did something wrong but at the same time it wasn't something so wrong to fire him on the spot, at least on my opinion. That being because he and the son where both yelling at each other and just not controlling their emotions. They both should have cooled down apologize to each other and talk it out like adults and than decided what to do. So on other words they are both at foult for what happend there. Sorry for my bad english not my first language and have a good day.
 @jkgf4671 he did that wrong however, thats just a log while of frustration with the other 2 members of the family finally blowing up, man couldnt cook what he thought was right, wasnt paid and even had to use his own money on the restaurant and the 2 owners literally tried to make him look like the problem when he wasnt anywhere near it, the frozen patty wasnt his idea and neither were the burgers or the menu changes and when Ramsay is blasting David for cooking a bad burger that was doomed to fail cuz the owner bought frozen patties that will never taste good or be cooked right as a result and Gordon was asking if he got paid for cooking those burgers believing they were his recipes when he wasnt being paid and the burgers werent his recipes
In the end they still never produced a Legal document saying he is the owner. I think the parents are looking out for themselves and no regard for their son. Master manipulators, both parents. He was just a pawn to them. I pray he gets a legal document. Take them to court.
 @thylis75  Ah, thanks I also just realized that I could've googled it but eh
When she said that David said exactly what I was thinking lmao like he's not saying you're on Prozac right now, Jen, he was saying you NEED to be on it😂
I laughed even harder when on his way out the door he said "Fuckin' meth-heads..."
Lol was looking in the comments to see if anyone catch that. 😂😂😂😂😂
I guess his magic trick worked cause he DID dissapear...... Isnt that magical? :P
"he's been working in the spirit of getting paid" " my father forced me into his family business and to think he would do anything like that to his own son is beyond shocking"
@nonegone7170 I don't think the son is a bad person, just that he was at a mental breakdown stage, I've said some dumb ass shit when under insane levels of stress myself
@nonegone7170if someone stole 250k from under you, you wouldn’t be all happy and shit lmao wtf
That lady is a Karen, because I can't use the other k/c sounding word to describe her.
 @therealneal3034  What does the term Karen mean, I really do not know.
The son should have pressed charges not gone to work for his dad. What an evil bastard to steal from your child like that. His kid was set for life and he was jealous. Just pure evil.
 @Senjinone  powerful enough to steal 200k from her son....or was that her husband "the meat sculptor"
That's how much she hates David 😂😂 it was so theatrical, she know it was good
I love how Gen smirks and throws attacks at David but then acts like a little kid , makes faces , starts crying and leaves or makes up bullshit on the go when shit is being thrown back. She is the type of person to throw punches , get pushed and start screaming "THEY HIT ME , I AM A VICTIM! HOW DARE THEY!" Honestly happy for David that he managed to expose them , prove himself , get his money and leave that shithole. They didn't deserve him.
Wendy might be the best partner who've been on KN. So supportive of Daniel, says it like it is, exposing the parents shady practices. 10/10
It really is astonishing how much Gordon invests personally in these little restaurant stories. Even going so far as to read this nutcases book. He really does have an insane amount of heart.
Considering how Daniel stayed in the business instead of reporting the theft(or tried to sue) makes David's "He's wired alright" make a lot of sense. That...and he's incompetent.
15:15 "Mushrooms are important to me, im from Poland" idky but that was the funniest line in this episode.
Jen: "what is that strong taste that I'm tasting" Flavour Jen, thats called flavour.
Ramsey is partly chef in this and full on social worker and family psychologist. I watched nearly every episode of kitchen nightmares and used what I learned from him to fix the relationship between my brother and my dad. It's still going on and so stressful but Ramsey advices and his moral kompass and compassion gives me guidance. This man deserves a medal and all the best in the world for being such a decent human, it's unbelievable he can pull his magic even in this situation. Just gives me hope to get through to my own "stubborn fucker" like he would say. Much love and appreciation, you're a role model!
David is right about one thing. Chef Ramsey has a big heart❤. He is only staying to see this through because he wanted to help David. "I've got your back." It means so much to David to have someone  who will help him to get out of a bad situation.  I've got so much respect for Gordon. A man with integrity and a genuine desire to help the people on this program. 💞
“What is that STRONG taste I’m tasting?’  It’s called spices, Karen
Daniel telling his Dad to just stay at the bar for their reopening, only to watch his Dad do the complete opposite was the hardest cringe. The definition of "you had ONE JOB".
I genuinely love Wendy and Danny so much. She’s such an amazing girlfriend and clearly cares about Daniel. She stands up for him when he can’t and literally jumped over a table to hug him when he was crying. And he clearly loves her and defended her from his parents as he was about to cry. Couple goals, those two. Couple goals.
The fact that the girlfriend cares more about their son then them is crazy she realizes how wrong it was to take his inheritance she realized how horrible he was treated she realized how much stress he was under and she realized that he basically did everything yet his parents are responsible for his whole existence and they don’t even know why their sons mad when they legit took enough money to buy a house with for something he didn’t even wanna do
I cant fathom an owner of a restaurant wanting their chef to fail. What a psychopath.
Τhe father hitting the table like that while he’s shouting is scary AF. Doesn’t matter what kind of childhood you suffered, you have no right throw your weight around like that while shamelessly taking advantage of your son’s loyalty and misplaced love. The way his demeanour flips right over from furious and defensive to lighthearted and solicitous the moment GR produces his book… What a disgusting worm of a man. Must’ve been a weight off Daniel’s shoulders when the old S.O.B finally quit this life.
These two creep me out, the owner.steals money from his son, and she's smiling about it, the chef I feel bad for he can cook and when he made the lovely burger she was critasing it making out she was choking on it, she's a funny one. I hope the son got out of this situation I feel bad for him
Australian here: That is NOT a mother heckin meat pie. I’m not confident that man has ever actually seen one. It’s like he had them made based on someone’s vague description of them
Gen is the biggest problem in this episode, like seriously. Even though the episode itself seems to be focused more on the father and son situation, the biggest underlying problem was definitely Gen. She used the fact that she's an old, frail woman to gain sympathy almost all the time and when things doesn't go her way she tried to act hurt, like bursting out of the restaurant when she argued with david. In the theatre she acted that she fell asleep bcs she's not interested in listening. She's just interested in winning arguments so she feels that she's right.   Also she acted like David's burger was bad and almost puked it back out even tho chef ramsey himself said it was good. Said that it's "too strong" or something but then again when ramsey cooked a burger, she ate a lot of it. Now there must be differences but i doubt Ramsey's burger is mellow enough for her "medium rare girl" taste buds. She knew what a good burger tastes like from the very beginning but for some reason she wont tell alan that his taste is shit and dont want to admit David's burger tastes good bcs she wants to be in control. Like come on she just wanted to blame it all on someone else, anyone, whoever it is.  P.s. 1:10:28 my fav one liner😂 dudes a lovely guy for sure
I feel like there's a very telling moment at the table, when Danny bursts into tears and says that they're all killing him - Jen gets up and I think she's about to comfort her son, but instead, just adjusts her seat. Wendy, on the other hand, climbs over Gordon in order to give Danny a hug. Idk, just seems indicative of their priorities.
If Gordon Ramsay gives your burger 9/10 you know you did a good job.
“My son resents me and I don’t know why” after stealing his inheritance. I didn’t realise there were actually people this thick 😅
he was licking his top lip too much.. i'd say he like coke
 @AnjuMaximoff  Parents like that, I can’t blame him for wanting escapism.
The shades on the top of the head are a dead giveaway to personalities like that lol
 @SunShinyDaysPlease  so what? Unless they are married she had no legal claim to that money.
iirc, I heard that she eventually got married to Daniel. She’s definitely a keeper and I hope the two of them can find peace now.
​@user-gj1me4mf5c  the 250k he never got back yet she and Daniel got married and are still together 13 years later?
He really does. In other episodes, he comes down with a much needed firm hand. But in episodes like these he really pulls back and adjusts to what needs to be said and done. Got to love him.
I'm willing to bet somebody on production read the book a week beforehand and gave him the cliff's notes.
From when the episode was filmed, if she is telling the truth she surely went out into the woods to collect mushrooms as kid because there was nothing else to eat.
I live in Poland and I can confirm that some people here are batshit crazy about mushrooms. For example, there are facebook groups where people post the photos of the mushrooms they picked etc. So yeah.
Pretty common in Czech Rep as well. People really enjoy taking trips to a forest and pick mushrooms. But somehow I doubt the crazy lady could even point to Poland on a globe
Kids in Poland learn pretty young how to identify poisonous mushrooms. Cut a piece and taste. Eastern Europeans are crazy about wild mushrooms.
 @invisibleinkcinematic6900  and as a Pole I doubt she’s got anything to do with Poland. Maybe a grandfather was from here lol.   PS. Polish people might be crazy about mushrooms but not farmed champignon mushrooms
 @noodleppoodle  my mom never spoke polish at home (so I never learned) strictly to improve her English, and while it's very good, there's still a slight accent that doesn't go away. This lady does not have that accent. Ergo, she was not born in Poland.
Is she from Poland the same way every American is Irish on Saint Patrick's day?
My hearing problem made it sound like "I AM FROM HOLLAND"
​ @HappyBeezerStudios Oh no. Poles collect mushrooms for fun. It's the same for us Czechs (neighboring country). It's actually an important part of our culture. We go to the forest (we love to go for walks in the forests) and search for mushrooms, it's a lot of fun, then back at home we clean and cut them with our family members and then cook and eat them together. (But we're not that much interested in the common commercially grown mushrooms that can be bought in stores.)
​ @LUR1FAX As a Pole, I can confirm, we only exist on the 3rd of May.
Ikr! He’s doing so well with people, Some need to be pushed and yelled at, like, when they’re supposed to deliver excellence but only come up with excuses. Others need a hug or just someone to listen. Or someone to teach and praise them for doing well.
I had no idea how kind and empathetic he is until I started watching this show.
He’s very objective driven. He can spot the problems right away and doesn’t dance around with words, he just says what needs to be said then reads the emotions and reacts and corrects accordingly. I think with this family though it was way to far gone way before he got there. This is a case where you sell the place and try and get what little money you can back to the son they stole from and maybe some for themself, if all the money wouldn’t disappear paying off debt. Absolutely disgusting behavior and people
LMFAO! If there's ever been a Karen, it sounds and looks like her.
Exactly and no one wants to smell his breath while trying to enjoy a meal 😂
For some reason I HATE that they're both constantly wearing hats 😅, but other than that yes, they're great together. 👍
​ @ms.annthropic6341  i mean Daniel was 29 at the time was filming and already balding which was probably embarrassing. My best guess is Wendy decided to make it less embarrassing and wearing a hat too. That or shes an LA hippie
I think these two are one of the most abusive parents i've ever seen on kitchen nightmares history, not only that, he kept telling Dan Wife to shut up & called her an idiot, i've never seen someone that rude & got the audactiy to treat his son wife shitty like that, absolutely unbelievable & so sad
 @lucy.brenn4n  Well, they were in America, and in America, you don't have to hit someone in order to commit assault against them, just put them in fear of it--as he did, repeatedly, to Wendy.
Yeah it’s so weird, it’s a diabolical liberty what they did with there sons money
It was a great burger and looked great. It is a shame they restricted david
The grandfather (The subject of the book) was a leading figure in Australian organised crime.
I don't feel bad for him after watching the whole episode.  The way he blows up in the kitchen must make Marilyn and the other server beyond uncomfortable.  It's unacceptable for a man to act that way in front of a woman.
well at least this one had the chance to say it... how about the other 20 previous ones who did not had the chance.....
 @Mulletman4  the most improtant for them was to show their psychological issues and controling the people, not to be profitable and have good buissines
 @SuPaa-e4h  really? good to hear/read!! I would have done the same, this episode makes me so angry but your comment made me feel much better now so thank you
The guy cooked a single half decent burger. Any five year old can do that. The same night, he completely screwed up dinner service. No one else was responsible for that. The guys a fraud. Nothing else.
Yeah, you can clearly tell she didn’t like the chef in the slightest. I mean she seems very manipulative who knows she may have possible persuaded Allen into taking that money from their son.
Shes just manipulative. Even manipulating the husband whos already out of his mind.
 @hasknight9749  The only thing to do with meat he’s qualified in is eating it, and even then there’s no accounting for his taste.
that's an act of a narcissist. Gen is a narcissist. :(
She really do need a Prozac (I think that's how it's spelled)
​ @oliviaocasain9980 explain it to him instead of asking him what he doesn't know
She is! I hate when he kept saying Prozac like she depressed. She is self-centered at that age I would be embarrassed acting like that
These owners are terrible, prime location, beautiful restaurant, very talented staff and they had a lot of money backing them. Insane that they blew the place up so fast.
"He has been working on uhm.. the spirit of getting payed." How on earth does one come up with that? 🤣
Its diappointing that Daniel and David clashed just cause of circumstances, but they both had the potential to get the restaurant back on track together
Stealing 250k from your SON and then asking him to cover A THOUSAND DOLLAR debt to your employee for unpaid wages is the MOST DESPICABLE THING I HAVE EVER SEEN ON KITCHEN NIGHTMARES and I mean by a COLOSSAL MARGIN. Nothing even comes close to that kind of disrespect. I don't even have words for that. This poor guy Daniel is really being attacked from all angles when he is ALREADY DOWN and it's by his own damn family. This is just hard to watch.
And Alan had the nerve to write a whole book about how HIS father mistreated him and turned his back on him. Clowns.
I wish Gordon had done a surprise “I got my lawyer to set up a lawsuit to give Danial full ownership”
wendy doesn’t have to defend her boyfriend so viciously but she does. that’s the kind of partner i’d want by my side
13:14 as an Australian, that “pie” is an absolute disgrace, any pie in Australia that looks like that would be burned, incinerated and thanos snapped out of existence. I have never in my life seen a pie look like that, I think I’d have a heart attack if I did. I wouldn’t even feed that to the wild boars.
The smile on that man when he was basically bragging about how he stole the money from his son. There’s plenty about this show that may or may not be dramatized. But he was proud of what he’d done.
"it doesnt matter if god fired me" david blaine was livid, justifiably so
David from the burger kitchen is the only sane one in that joint. I hope he found a place that appreciates him!
Pretty sad how at the end, Gordon was talking to Daniel about how he lost his dad at 53 and never got the chance to say the things that he wanted to say to him before he died. Alan died 9 years after the episode aired and, if the lawsuit was anything to go by, the two of them never forgave each other
I love how Gordon just wanted to finish eating the burger and nobody was letting him do it.
I love how he says "My son has a great deal of resentment towards me... and i dont know why"  a few minutes after saying I took his money and invested all 250k, I forced him into it and told him after the fact... I'd have abit more than resentment towards my dad if he did that...
"I am a medium rare girl" has to be one of the most weirdly disgusting sentences I've ever heard.
The way he said “knock yo ass out “ I thought he had a lil black in him 😂😂😂 love it
Gens face when Gordon loved Davids redemption burger is a picture. One of the best parts of the episode
steals 250,000 dollars from son “My son has a great deal of resentment towards me.   I don’t why.”  How delusional is this man? Chef David is 100% absolutely right about the wife too.
5:44 "my son has a great deal of resentment towards me, i dont know why 🤷‍♂" hmm i wonder why, you totally didnt take his money without permission and force him into a buisness
not "so fast" it was right from the start . cowboy burger - $39 ! come on who'd pay that for ground beef ? and it was crap anyway
 Shirotera 1601  well at least that's a good thing. Dude probably hates his parents for life now tho😂
When you have an ego bigger than jupiter you will fail, you can have the best staff in the world but it means nothing if you as an owner wanna believe you are the best chef but actually you are not
LOL I feel bad for everyone in this situation.... the owners are so out of touch with reality and genuinely feel like theyre just being attacked. The son is clearly traumatized by the familys betrayal and chaos. The poor girlfriend tryna save her mans sanity... and the chef being undermined in his every move. SMH I think this place closed down for the best, I hope Daniel has found his own way.
I totally agree  but after the threat he absolutely had to go.
If I had Gordon's reputation and millions, I would have definitely done that. Or just reimbursed him the whole amount.   I hope that he did indeed won his lawsuit and got his money back.
What's even more impressive is that Danial quickly proved why she's standing by him. First glance at the guy I said, he's got no hair and he whine's about his parents - why is this girl with him. Well, she obviously saw through all of that and was spot on. Cheers to both and on getting their money back.
 @SunShinyDaysPlease  All signs pointed to him never getting it and that's not enough to attract a woman unless she thinks she can literally get all of it.
 @SunShinyDaysPlease  You mean the money he doesn’t have? You think she’s only standing by a broke guy only for money?  C’mon, get your head out of your arse
 @SunShinyDaysPlease that 250k been long gone and she still stood by his side defending him , it's obvious he was pissed he blew that money as was she for him and her as well
 @averycheesypotato  The internet user telling someone to get their head out their ass as they talk about a situation they have 0 context about, multiple thousands of kilometers away from them, and they will never care about it again in their entire lives. That is levels of irony I cannot comprehend
Honestly that one was on him the son was right when he said the table wouldn’t have 42 guests 😂 n you can’t threaten the kid cause he pointed out something obvious other then that David is still a goat
Well the kids pretty normal, just constantly getting shit on and worn down
Apparently he owns a successful bbq joint and burger kitchen is dead and alan died of covid in 2020
 @sterni70  she was there for the birth of chef mike in 1945
She has to settle for medium rare because no one would give it to her RAW
That's how you know he's a chef from the street! Best kind you'll ever meet
Lol guys it's called living in California and working in downtown LA
“I am a middle-rare girl” cracks me up every single time
Jen is the karen in motion. Idk if she is pure evil, but she is during the first part. Here is a dedicated time stamp for her because she is remarkable 14:06 that evil grin. Just like a bully wins the teachers 22:51 you can feel the resentment lol 23:01 Fake cough just to prove a point 44:41 starting to sleep. She cannot handle it 45:23 yawning, amazing professionalism 45:56 Eyeroll because ramsey disturb her sleep 51:42 She got chilled from the sfx 52:34 POG face 56:03 that eyebrow while her husband is speaking about his wrong doings  Special mention: 51:54 cringing in action. Maybe just spasm 1:15:02 bread is great. (wow, what a great bakery I thought)
F*cking love Wendy. Absolute boss. Hope they're still together. Also, those waitresses are pure gems.
“I’ve been eating my whole life, I’m an expert” - literally the only credential half these owner/chefs can claim, like 100% of everyone alive
THE CHEF WAS THE BACKBONE OF THE BUSINESS, AND YOU FIRED HIM 😂
Gordon being nice and soft to Daniel is really wholesome. God, he really has a softspot for them younguns.
I always love the comments on these videos, they never disappoint 💀
If I was left 250K from my grandmother and it was taken from me by my parents, I would be absolutely livid, because I know it's something they wouldn't even THINK of ever doing. Can't imagine how heartbreaking it was for that guy.  If I got that much, I'd definitely share it with my Mum/Dad and use it to make money for the three of us. However, just taking it away from your kid to open a failing restaurant? That is deplorable.
At first I thought David was the bad chef like most episodes but  he was absolutely right most of the time lol
Gen is the worst kind of toxicity and manipulation, she's the devil behind everything that's been done, from stealing to allowed the father of reproduicing his childhood trauma with his son.... damn she's evil, the chef blaine was seeing right through her games!!!
How is Gordon, the professional chef, consistently a better family therapist than most out there?
"My son has a great deal of resentment toward me, and I don't know why..."     MAYBE IT WAS THE QUARTER OF A MILLION DOLLARS YOU STOLE FROM HIM
"I've been dealing with a bully who's been abusing me-"  Objection Hearsay 💀
Its bad when Gordon has to be the one thats calm.
Imagine Alan putting that bunless meat-cake he slapped on a plate in front of Chef Ramsay on Hell's Kitchen. That burger would be launched across the kitchen and would be sliding down the nearest wall leaving a trail of grease and cheese behind it.   I bet that would have been one of the moments they put into the preview clips for the episode. I can already hear Ramsay yelling "WHAT IS THAT???? YOU'VE GIVEN UP HAVEN'T YOU??? GET OUT!!!!! OUT!!!!"
As an aussie that is not a pie, thats a war crime
35:37. This is the moment I live for every episode. The music stopping. The anticipation after the first line. The ridiculous second line. It's simply pure and raw poetry.
I think what Daniel REALLY wants is his $250k back and absolutely nothing to do with the restaurant.
I am Polish. I know this type of people like this mother. She came to the US during a period of poverty in Poland. Maybe she won a resettlement visa, in order to get married she had to submit to her husband even at the expense of her son. This woman is weak, narcissistic and will never allow her son to spread his wings and leave her. That is why she will create problems and stand in his way, pretending to be the victim in the situation.
Also... 39:12 "I'm NOT on Prozac, dear" and then David retorts with the OBVIOUS "You SHOULD be!" 😅
I believe they are still together. But the father died. The restaurant closed down and the son sued the father before
They are and they have a daughter, as stated in Alan obituary.
Least hes doing well now, I’ve heard 2 stories, one is he owns his own restourant now the other is hes went as a pastry chef again at the Mission Inn Hotel, either way, Im glad hes doing good cuz he defo deserves it more than anyone at that hellhole
Right lol I get the son was going through a lot of crap but the chefs life wasn't great either
Yeah he's a real one. Imagine having such a skilled chef but don't give him any say. All the best to him.
Not really this is a 29 year old man and everyone is telling him how stupid is ticketing system is but he screams at the chef about it  The mother's toxic the dad's a f**** thief and the 29 year old son is a child
He was a competent chef just being hamstrung by the delusional owners. His behavior towards Daniel was overkill though, and while it wasn't unreasonable to fire him, it was just unfortunate for all parties.
 @Razoredge581 also as terrible as the owners were, he did go a little far in his comments to her about Prozac and stuff. It just wasn’t classy even if she might’ve deserved it
 @TyranBatten  agreed, not a classy move, very few parties were in the right in these episodes.
Pretty sure he did leave the restaurants and come back on drugs to get his check.    But that doesn't change the fact that he wasn't being paid.
 @Razoredge581  the chef was unpaid, not in control, and being blamed, he's in the right
Well he isa famous magicianofc he saw through the smoke and mirrors xD
HONESTLY THOUFH- I literally had to pause the video just to make sure I heard that right- like holy shit-
Bet he ain’t paid taxes for it either SMHH, leaving his son even more screwed than he already was.   Bitter irony about the book he wrote about his own father lol history repeating itself and no lessons learned
OMG I HAVE NEVER SEEN SUCH A DISGRACE OF A PIE
Apparently he sued his parents for the 250k a short while after the episode aired and he won it
 @HH29.17 how tf is he going to get paid if the dads broke
 @WHOOOOOOOOCARES if they can’t pay, the court will force them to pay with assets. Since Daniel got the business before suing(the smart thing to do, since it should be legally his), they’d have to pay with their home, their cars, anything they could. And any money they’d make from a retirement fund, or anything along those lines should go to him until he’s paid what he’s owed.
Allen is so unbothered, sitting there eating his burger while his wife ran out of the whole restruant and is now crying, then telling gordon about a book he liked 😭
As someone who takes prozac for high anxiety, gen does NOT need prozac. She needs a god damn reality check lmao
When his mother asked what Daniel wanted, he should've said "my money back".
I could say that to my landlord ill stay in my home in the sprit of paying my rent
Whats interesting to me about this show is that the channel keeps recycling the same episodes, with funny titles and has an active fanbase. People still watch this. I see comments as recent as hours ago. Its surreal and im all in for it
"Instead of sugar in your coffe you should add a little prozac" has gotta be the best line of this episode lmao
28:00 Are father-to-son betrayals inherited in this family, bro was literally describing what he did with his son while mentioning his story with his father
That father doesn't give a crap about his son, he is a sociopath.
I felt so bad for the chef. Miracle to me how you can still mess up so bad when your chef is clearly delivering top notch food. The chef really tried to make things work.
I feel really bad for that chef that was fired at the beginning... Yeah, he said something mean during a heated moment, but that had been the dynamic so far, and he was so frustrated. He seemed like a good chef who cares about food, genuinely, and I'm sure if given a second chance he would have been a great asset :/
What they did to their son has aged him like 20 years. Dude was 29 looking like he’s 49. Literally stole money out of his inheritance
Wow! Gordon Ramsey can have compassion and sensitivity. He was the only one that was actually respectful and calm here. He really showed his humanity❤
Honestly I would sue my dad if he did that to me. I don't care if he's my dad, we're talking about a lifetimes worth of money that he just stole.
The way the woman was sitting and yawning in the theatre... Honestly if I was one of the people speaking on stage at this moment, I would've told her that one of the first manners they teach you in school is to sit properly and put your hand in front of your mouth when you yawn, especially when someone is talking to you.
"My son has a great deal of resentment towards me, and I don't know why"  Gee, could it be because you stole $250k from him?
I didn't realise how professional and caring chef Ramsey can be. Legend. I hope the son is okay mental health wise, he deserves the business all to himself, but I hope he is happy and business is good
When he came back for his check I was in tears 🤣🤣☠️🤣🤣🤣
the way Gen scowled when Gordon said the chef's burger was good at 22:21 is just so transparent it's crazy
14:00 "This is Jalapeño. 15:14 "You're focusing on a mushroom!" 16:22 "He has been working on ah..the spirit of getting paid." 17:31 "I am! I am standing up for you" Camera zooms out showing his ass sitting down 🤣😂🤣😂🤣
prozac pals rise up we do not claim this sentient piece of jetsam
I don't know, she seemed quite anxious and obnoxious to me. xDDD
i love KN but people are right to call this out, smaller channels would get in trouble for re-uploads
He probably wnet a got a job at a restaurant that wasn't run by narcasistic crazy people. Especially since his burger making ability is a 9/10 by GORDON RAMSEY'S Standards. If he wasnt so vocal, gordon probably would've hired him.
Actually, the son should have never got involved in their business given the fact that he wanted to do something else.
I would sue as well. Even if it meant he become homeless from needing to sell his house or gets sent to jail due to him not being able to pay me. You would be better off not having a father like that in your life.
 @streetridersss8360  ??? He didn't have a choice, they STOLE his money
 @streetridersss8360  He DIDN'T get involved, his dad literally STOLE the money and forged his son's signature on all the legal paperwork to force him into the situation. Everything that father did was illegal and 100% worth suing someone over.
The son actually sued the dad for "Breach of contract" but the case was dismissed if I remember correctly. It wasn't really for the stolen money, but maybe it had something to do with it(interesting fact, Alan's father was allegedly a crime boss in Australia called Mr. Sin and the half million that he gave Alan and his son was a really really small part of the fortune, his unlawful daughter got 4 million)
With what? They stole his whole trust fund, over 250k, he has nothing!
 @RockyRMR  Whenever you have to question the legality of what you're doing to your child, its most certainly highly immoral.
 @flarefire2294  He had more than the 250k but that was the majority of it.
 @chubbybunny6975  Alan feels as if his son's money is his money,  and I can't blame his thought process. He didn't want to join his dad's crime empire and decided to stay in the US and marry the crazy polish mushroom girl in the US.  Obviously his dad wanted an heir to his empire and eventually disowned him out of frustration.  His father ( Abe Saffron ) was a famous mob boss in Australia, who died with an estimated $30 million ( 130 according to other sources ) of which his only son Alan only got $500k, his  8 grandchildren each got a million, the rest went to his mistresses and various charities.
 @jakubdrabent8158   He wasn't "allegedly" , he really was a big time mob boss, Abe Saffron.
 @alainportant6412  oh, he was, it's just that he never got proven of the serious crimes, but got Al Capone treatment, so evem though we can say he was with big certainty, it is still alleged status
 @streetridersss8360  they stole a quarter million from him. Where the HELL do you find the son at fault
​ @falsegod8792 I mean, he should get his money back and use it whatever he actually wanted instead of a restaurant.
She was doing it on purpose just out of spite she is one crazy old bag
 @Jojo-bg1re  hahaha!!  I haven't heard the expression ''old bag'' since the 80s!  It's brilliant!!
They sold the restaurant not long after the show aired, despite the new management it still went out of business. The family seemed to have made up with Daniel and Wendy celebrating their first child with lots of happy photos of them all together (minus Gen for some reason). Alan sadly passed away in 2020 but at least seems to have repaired his relationship with his son
The son sued his parents and won back his money, they did NOT part on happy terms.
 @deerlyqueery  I'm glad he at least got what was meant to be his.
Dude was keyed the hell up and ready for war all over again 😂😂
 @Langley_Ackerman19  me too, no wonder the girlfriend was so angry with them taking her boyfriend's money
this was a good start, but youve missed a few lol. def one of the biggest tools all-time on this show. "my son resents me, I don't know". "my father wanted me to stay in the business, dad i dont want to be the business" from gentle santan.
Bro I swear every time something bad happened to someone jen always has a smile on her face
"My son has a great deal of resentment towards me and I don't know why." 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
I really appreciate how polite the chef is... He really knows the weight and value of having someone like chef Ramsey come to help them.   *Restores my faith in humanity*
As someone who lost my Dad suddenly  at 57 ten years ago I think about everything unsaid every day.  This episode hit hard for me and hope they fix their relationship.
Wendy is a real one. She's sticking through thick and thin with Daniel, being the rock that he needs on this shitty situation. Add on their relationship clearly being very strong, and at least Daniel has someone in his life that truly loves him  Edit: Finished the vid, reinstating that Wendy is a G but MAN is everyone in this episode a dickhead and a half. Daniel has 28 screws loose and is trying to re-attach them with a fucking chisel, Gen and Allen are self-explanatory and David, whikst he is genuinely the most respected person, wouldve been the villain on ANY other episode. Thats how bad it is
Best part is when he’s trying to calm the wife and ramsey says “you need to get it together, Alan needs you” and then it just cuts to him chillin and eating, just unbothered 😂
Gen: I'm a 64 year old...  And, that's a garbage excuse to ignore everything else? You're playing the victim card for leverage?
I always thought my family was fucked up but these people make me feel a lot better. Thank you.
I must try that tactic with my power company, "I'm working on the spirit of you getting paid". Well, glad we got that sorted.
I was dying with laughter while watching this episode but also deeply concerned for Allan. I genuinely felt like there was something off and that he might actually be suffering from extreme delusions, if that's even a thing.  Also when he said "... He is working with the intent of being paid" that killed me🤣😭
god he's just like amy, blaming it all on the yelpers 💀
That David talking bout Prozac is insane 😂😂😂😂😂 he is a Menace
Alan was the son of the Australian mob boss, Abe “Mr. Sin” Saffron. Like father, like son. No wonder Alan embezzled his son, Danny, out of $250k.
When Gordon is the one screaming the least you know it’s bad
"My son has a huge amount of resentment towards me, and I have no idea why." Could it possibly have something to do with the quarter million dollars you took from him?
"One word for this. Meow. Cat food. Disgusting." My toddler when i make chicken nuggets instead of chicken strips
If anyone doesn't know already the grandfather mentioned in this episode is Abe Saffron, one of the most notorious Australian mobsters of the last century.
That dinner service was so explosive even Gordon was so blown away so much he was almost speechless. Nearly the side cast!
 @SF55034  if you weren’t paid for the longest time you would be too
 @SF55034  if u were being blamed for some else’s screw ups then u would be
 @SF55034  The whole chain of command was a shitshow. Alan and Gen were off in their own little world denying reality (and denying that she was on prozac), using Daniel as an ATM which was stressing him out and all these factors working against David when he’s not even allowed to have input on the menu. Alan and Gen didn’t even have a thousand dollars to their names, they needed to dip into the inheritance Daniel got from his grandfather to pay David what he was owed after he quit from not getting paid.
 @SF55034 I totally agree. People in the comments see him as if he was in the French resistance, when all the guy was doing was sitting around whining, cursing and running out the door every other minute. In fact, the case is simple. As a chef, every single plate leaving my kitchen is my responsibility, no one else’s. If the owner res doesn’t let me do my job, I talk to him, and if that doesn’t work, I leave on the spot. But I‘ll never send a single plate, I can’t put my name on.
​ @jbcatz5 You do have to admit, he's at least a bit off for not quitting immediately. The biggest clue I got was him okaying a burger which was obviously raw and blaming it on "a lot of stress." Here's the deal, he clearly knows the frozen meat is the problem, and he isn't allowed to change that aspect. So just walk away. Why stick around for that long? He's partly to blame for sticking around and taking the blame.
 @SF55034 I would be too if I was treated like he was.
the way she hopped over ramsay to come over to daniel to be able to hug him warms my heart, she's an AMAZING girlfriend.   hope he hasn't done anything to push her away, cause she's a gem.
She's a smack head after him for the money she's salivating over lmao. Look how jittery she is this whole episode, I can't believe how blind all you people are.
​@JuliusCaesar888 when Ramsay first met them in the apartment she hopping all over the place, doing weird arm things 😂 I instantly thought druggy
No.. I don’t think he was deluded. I think he was terrified of being exposed as a con artist, thief and fraudster. And anything he might admit to on film could be evidence if/when his son sues/presses charges against him for fraud/embezzlement.. and the moms his partner.. she’s there as a trained side show to distract and confuse the situation.
as tool said “do onto others what has been done to me” 🤷‍♂️ hopefully daniel and wendy feel at peace now
He's just spitting facts in the face of blonde Merkel there.
David, for the record I’m not on Prozac…. David: “But for the record you should be! Fkn meth heads” 😂😭😭😭
I take it Alan's son Danny inherited the money from this mob boss?
 @novideostoday from what I heard about him, Abe Saffron was a real estate mogul. He also ran a lot of rackets with bars, nightclubs, and even brothels in Sydney’s red light district.
He was mostly in real estate for the Cross, which was the hub of nightlife and basically all underworld goings-on in Sydney. Really nasty guy according to my mother who owned clubs in the area before I was born. Was known to have been involved in lots of hits and had a lot of the local police force on his payroll.
 @sleepy172  Now I don't feel bad about the father stealing money from the trust fund. No wonder the editors left that part out. BTW, the son wasn't broke either. He left his many grand children a million each. Alan got only 500k:D
So, he IS related?  I wondered, I knew Abe Saffron had a son called Allan.  My dear Dad was a Cop & used to tell us some wild stories about Abe & his co-horts.  Allan's just as dodgy then, stealing his son's money & not paying staff.  Best wishes from Australia 🇦🇺 ❤
this makes sense. they were opening a laundry, but forgot a money laundry should at least break even. they should have opened in Sacramento.
Daniel being more mature than his dad in his mid 20's. I really hope he's doing fine
I'm really hoping Daniel sued the parents, stealing that much money from him and admitting it is insane
I have never in my life seen Gordon so done w a family but it’s fair cuz they all seem to have issues 😭😭😭 I fw wendy sm tho like she sticking up for her man 🔥🔥🗣️
Jen: "I taste a strong taste what is that"  Basic spices Jen, basic spices, and seasoning, aka flavor. Welcome to Flavour Town medium rare girl.
Burger Kitchen: Exists*  Amy's Baking Company: Finally! A worthy opponent!
This episode just makes me appreciate and respect Gordon so much more. What a good person.
I was waiting for SO long to see someone tell the father that he was turning into his own father. Thank god gordom ramsey said something!!!!
Daniel could have bought his own apartment or gone to study anything he wanted or set up a business he was genuinely passionate about and truly have a good start in his life, I can't believe his parents thoughtlessly stole that away from him.
Better than a normal relationship counsellor and the best psychologist. Gordan is everything.
That chef was 100% in the right yelling at the guy ngl, probably shouldn't have threatened to beat him up but it was absolute chaos and frustration and the guy was NOT helping in the slightest.
daniel dressing like a redditor throws me off so bad lmfao
One of the rare episodes where gordon isn't screaming about the fridge   Edit:holy crap I've never gotten these many likes
"I've eaten meat all my life." #1 reason to open a restaurant.
dude has the best girlfriend in the world. she fights for him so hard and she is a better friend, partner and mother than his family is
How this goes from hells kitchen to a dr phill episode is crazy
"Mushrooms are important to me..I'm from Poland" 15:16 as a polish person is funny to hear that when she gets mad for putting wine to the mushrooms kekw
Eric is a fantastic person, I met him while upgrading their Point of Sales system..was before hours..he asked me if I was hungry..I said yes. He said pick anything and he'd make it. Not only is he a fantastic person, he's a great chef! Thanks bud for the memory
The owners relationship with his father: that apple fell so close to the tree there was no gap. MIRROR bro!!
Alan starts crying at the new POS!!!! He's shocked that he didn't have to STEAL THE MONEY FOR IT from his son!!!
The sad thing is you just see all the sadness and doubt in everybody's face. Aunt, no there's no way his father's going to change
I just watched the video and went to look for it on google maps and it says ( closed permanently) what a shame 💔
 @Locutus  thanks! I learned English on the Internet, not the best when it comes to proper grammar I'll admit
 @hoozoohleague8264  No worries. With decades, you don't need to put ' in it, even for possession.   But, apart from that, don't knock yourself down.
 @madatraka7015  yes, but the abuse didn't start the day this was filmed.
Meh idk I feel like daniel acts extremely immature throughout with temper tantrums constantly. Not that it’s his fault though, a family like that is sure to screw your head up
 @bigblackdrummachine8250  If I was working everyday in a place I hate; built with money that was stolen from me...I'd consider I have a free pass on arson 😂
I honestly could not predict the outcome of that match.  Probably ABC because there were no wait staff, just the psychotic owners (at least the burger place had a few extra people working there).
The one scene where the guys eyes light up when Gordon brings out his book while his son is having a nerves break down disgusts me.
Yep. He could have had a world class education nearly anywhere he wanted.
Well said!! The problem was both David and Daniel were not putting themselves in each other's stressful shoes. Had that happen starting with Danny expediting and observing not just the ticket system in the kitchen, but the ticket system on the counter by the bar area where the servers were because David wasn't the only one confused, but Lena and Marilyn were struggling with the ticket system where Gordon thought it was messed up during dinner service. I wish at the end of the first dinner service or when Danny was in tears to stop the dinner service with David still working for a meeting where Gordon would have had the opportunity to cover all points. NO way am I saying David should have threatened the boss that was forced into his parents extremely irresponsible investment into the restaurant as part of an ownership, but had Danny clarified which table in a calm voice, the confrontation would probably not have been too heated with a threat from David, but those who say Danny was justified in this heat of the moment weren't noticing the aggressive body and facial language he showed. In addition, while doing so he might have gotten too close to David's space within the metal barrier/counter with the aggressive hand gestures where he yelled, "THINK LOGICALLY, MAN!!." with the confused chefs and servers.   It's interesting, but a bit sad because I may consider being a part time employee in food service, but since I do have auditory processing disorder where it happens at times to where I would need patience as a server, bus boy or assistant chef especially in the beginning since my injury from a previous food service job back in December of last year I'm still recovering from. Believe it or not that scene took me back to my days as a student to where I was struggling with several verbally abusive impatient teachers that clarified things and instructions in condescending ways not putting themselves in my shoes as someone with some special needs, similar to what Danny did before David threatened him and the scene really does make me choke up due to flashbacks of negligence and immaturity by some educators that gave me some PTSD.  I don't know if Danny would have changed his mind about firing David in an alternative world had David immediately apologized after getting the check or if Gordon Ramsay told him David's side of the story for Danny to acknowledge David's stress, it was David who made me a burger I gave a 9 out of 10 meaning he can cook, the servers showed me the ticket system with inconsistency and disorganization and the new POS system at the end of the episode.
There was probably not enough time with how much drama there was. He might’ve done it in the filming but it probably got cut
That's because Chef David actually knew what he was doing and kept it clean.
​ @nancyjones6780 Eric Greenspan. He was the grilled cheese king. A well known chef who came to explain how to deal with Yelp.
If you’ve ever been the person who cooks for a family holiday, that’s the stress a chef feels every shift. Keep your composure and don’t be the problem. Keep cooking.
Gordon whipping out Alan’s book and going quote for quote on the family lore was such a flex. What a mic drop.
"what is that strong taste I am tasting?" Uncle Roger would say: "it's a vegans worst nightmare - flavour."
Tbf the sons crash out was fair, but i do think he acted in the moment. The chef was the only one in that place that made sense
The PROZAC QUEEN AND HER WAYNKER HUSBAND ARE OF THEIR ROCKERS.
Ramsay really did a great job here. It started very messy and he managed to fix not only the restaurant, but also the family
Executive Chef David Blaine, the magician and his co chef, Jalapeño 😂
"it's between you... and me and... and... PROZAC. GIMME MY THOUSAND DOLLARS."
Must be absolutely horrible growing up with 2 narcissist parents like these. I feel for you man.
Restaurant issues aside, I just can NOT believe a man would literally steal 250k from his son, for his own use. Especially an inheritance ! The dad took full advantage of his son's age and STOLE his money. That sickens me !
Yo this is the craziest episode I’ve ever seen on Kitchen Nightmares even chef Ramsey is appalled 😂😂
I love how they refer to “business, business ventures” when referring to Alan’s father. When he was one of the most infamous member of organised crime in Australia. That’s where all those inheritances came from
I think the second  burger they served Gordon  still had a heartbeat
I must say, David is the wittiest chef I've seen 😂
'I'm blaming you because otherwise it's my fault and I don't like it'
"Redemption burger" I bet the "executive chef" has been dying to use that name😂 the whole restaurant screamed micro management and bad attitude but I love how open minded they were towards the end.
Alan and Jen should be in jail for what they did to their own son, what a pair of disgusting people. I hope Daniel is doing better today...
lmfao the classic tough guy move  "i'm gonna knock your ass out" "oh you are? come over here then" actually comes over there "uhm uhm get out of here you're fired"
Thankyou gordon for giving Daniel such  kind words truly amazing
I’m always that person for any and every occasion and Daily in my own home I try to keep everything on schedule and prepped so everything is done together and served hot …but  it can def be a challenge esp on those big holiday meals  ❤
Same here , everyone in my home looks to me holidays , weekdays , weekends it never stops . It's stressful sometimes but I enjoy feeding and making my family happy and satisfied ❤
if i take one of the kids' yogurts they lose their shit😂
 @angelfuturejob   what? no, it doesn't. you clearly don't know what it takes to become a licensed therapist
 @angelfuturejob   this sentiment is everywhere in every kitchen nightmares comment section. so no, it isn't "obviously a joke"
he sued his father for the money (don't know how it went), the restorant is closed, the father dead but daniel is still with his gf and has a daugther (based on the other comments).
And then started crying about how he had been threatened 😂 I do feel bad for the son seeing as his dad stole his money but God he was annoying
That’s how I feel too. Daniel got forced into a terrible situation and his parents treating him so bad. But it was so obvious the ticketing system was flawed, and he didn’t want to admit it.
I think it was just a goofy interaction. Both are under a lot of stress but they were taking it out on each other rather than the two old henchbacks Jen and Allen  but I will say it was more of David’s fault. He even admitted it. That argument was just a breaking point from all the bullshit from his dumbass parents
Well, you don't threaten your boss. Daniel was 100% in the right to fire him, lame as that interaction was.
You don't suppose to Threaten ANYBODY.  Hes a pos boss yelling at that man.​@InciniumVGC
 @gfr237  That's not something to laugh about or even being funny at all, imagine yourself being that super pressured, you would cry out, and probably even stab the guy, honestly it's not funny, guy got a depression too, i feel for him
The mother is the definition of the inability to take responsibility for herself
Such a classic "what is that strong taste that i'm tasting ?" Your bitterness
Love the actors prettending to eat and ignore ramsey at the beginning lmao
Yall lost me at the book...  To think that a father could stab his own son in the back....  Says the grown ass man that stole 250k from his son.
"I'm a medium rare girl"... some of the craziest things I ever heard on Youtube. She's 64... It sticks to my mind since first hearing, could be more than years ago. She's incredibly crazy. I feel sorry for all the people who have to work with her.
I'm not Australian, but I've been there a couple of times, and that thing is a million miles away from even resembling an Australian pie.
I dunno how many times I've watched this episode but I still watch it to this day whenever it shows up on my timeline. David made this my favourite episode.
I’d wear a fedora too if my hairline was lookin like that I can’t lie
Wendy easily is a 10/10, what a wonderful woman standing up,protecting and standing by Daniel
The dad is sort of, "I've eaten meat all my life so I'll open a restaurant." 😳😳😳
Wait...did she literally jump over Ramsey to get to her guy?! She's a keeper. Dude you better love that girl cause she dang sure love you!
Poor Daniel. Bro looks 40. His parents are borderline psychotic. They are torturing him.
Daniel: "Table 2 isn't gonna have 42 f*cking guests!" 🤣🤣🤣 omg im dying
Is anyone gonna talk about that fake-as-hell smile that the owners wife gave when the owner gave Gordon his burger?  22:16
I'm zero percent surprised to hear a completely unqualified burger restaurant owner from Australia say, with comolete authenticity, that he thinks his bland, badly cooked burgers are perfect and "the best burgers [he's] ever had."
Imagine one guy goes on yelp to write the owner had a bad breath.
LMAO David’s clapbacks when he demanded his check is mad funny😂😂😂😂
I love that Daniel believes that David is trying to scapegoat him by complaining about the tickets, and tries to pin it back on the kitchen staff, when the rest of David's chefs, the servers, Wendy, AND GORDON all think the ticket system is a load of shit.   Like dude, nobody is blaming you, but it's obvious that to the people who have to make and serve the food ON the tickets instead of yelling out the orders, that there's a problem with the system.
I love how he's always kind to the staff. 90% of the time, they are just trying to do their job (and hate the owner too)
Work for her. The only thing she does is excuse her inaction by saying she’s a 64yo woman.
And her husband is even more pathetic. He’s like a chihuahua he just barks but doesn’t do anything. I also find it funny how every time he tries to speak, people are just inclined to cut him off.
Danny and Wendy look like basement dwelling reddit mods, yikes... they are made for each other...
Meh, she just never dated another loser with that much inheritance... lol
​ @fumomofumosarum5893 why would you insult the literal 2 people who weren't raging assholes in this whole episode? And for their appearance no less. Real class act you are
​ @rorygillmore6555 m3n like you lacks so much character that you think money is the only thing you can offer. Yikes.
 @DimT670 Agreed, bro judged a book by its cover, when it turns out those were the two people in this episode i could stand to be around.. gosh, Allen and Gen are real pieces of work. Well, were. I’ve since heard David sued and won for his 250k back, and Allen later died of a heart attack.
It was kinda weird when she said how she loved being yelled at all sexually.
 @Gobbersmack  It's not weird, you're just going wild with your imagination, because you probably love those things yourself
 @99leebo  I've just read that the dad died. At least he left something wonderful for his son.....
​ @jwsuicides8095  The restaurant closes... so outside of stealing 250k im not sure what else he left him
 @jimrockqc  Sorry, I was being sarcastic. I'm a Brit and we're terrors for being sarcastic.
By that logic, I must be an amazing Formula 1 driver, because I have so much experience with powered wheelchairs. nods wisely
 @ThePhallusAnnihilators  I'm glad you said that because my right foot has been hurting a lot recently.. What do you think it could be? 😉
It's possible that they are the best burgers hes ever had, he just doesn't know how good they could be.
Generational issues suck. How the owner doesn't see that he's repeating the toxic manipulation his father did to him, now to his own son is a lot to me watching this.
Gordon is a chef and a therapist at the same time.
Alan: My son greatly resents me and I just don't know why Also Alan: I stole 250,000$ of my son's money lol
Gordon has such a big heart. He’s literally changing people’s lives
Gen : "What's that strong taste I'm tasting"  It's called flavour you old bat!
I hope David goes to another restaurant for a better job, he really have passion to cook
im convinced the wagyu blend he enjoys so much is human flesh.
I simply cannot get over my complete and utter contempt for Alan. He should have been behind bars for stealing a quarter of a million dollars at all, with an extra penalty for the damage it did to Daniel's life! If there is an afterlife, I do hope he's been held account for his despicable actions.
" My son has a great deal of resentment against me........and I don't know why?"  It's got me wondering why as well!!!!!
Not growing up after 64 years of your life is insane
Why does the father seem like a dazed lost cat while working but a manipulative savvy dictator at all other times?
Gordon really is a miracle worker, can't believe he ACTUALLY made those grandpas step down
“This is about me and you and your need and use of Prozac” 😂
I'm Australian, that looked absolutely NOTHING like the meat pies here 😂
I am vegetarian for more than 2 decades, but I am confident even I would fix a better burger.
" Mushrooms are important to me, I'm from Poland! " Me: laughs in disappointed polish
"I stole a quarter of a million from my son and he's resentful about something, but I don't know what it is." Cretin!
Jen says she doesn’t have the kind of power that David says she does but she is one of the owners. If he didn’t do what she and Alan told him than he would have gotten fired.
LITERALLY. He wrote an entire book on dealing with his manipulative father, and then has the balls to say “I took 250k from my son’s inheritance and told him after the fact” with a straight face. They say don’t speak ill of the dead, but I really couldn’t care he passed from a heart attack.
hes in hell working in the spirit of getting into heaven😂
honestly I've worked for a lot places where the owner was like that 😂 I've never seen a more accurate description XD
Son of a mob boss. Never actually learnt how to run shit.
As someone who's been a meat eater for my whole life, I don't doubt it. A burger with a side of sweet potato fries, and maybe a bit of baked veggies could be amazing
hell I'll turn vegan any day if alan or gen cook me a "wagyu" burger.
Thing is Wagyu is legit hood for burgers, Alan’s meat is just mass processed crap
What kind of parent would STEAL money from their own child. That's insane. It's straight up evil.
Anyone else notice Gordon hiding his laughter at 39:12?   "And David, for the record I am not on Prozac"  "Well for the record YOU SHOULD BE"
"My son resents me and I don't know why" uh....maybe because you stole 250k from him?
Love these failed owners, Alan celebrities love my burgers, Sebastian celebrities love my pizaa, and who can forget the Elk king Joe who was taught by old school European master chefs 😂
28:07 "And to think a father would do that to his own son" You stole $250,000 from YOUR own son, and you have the audacity to say this... crazy
When he admits to grand theft of an inheritance with a smile you know this is going to be an epic fail.
“I don’t have that much power” you are the owner lol
Every time Gordon send a plate back The father: I’m shocked disappointed embarrassed ,this is the best burger I ever tried
Chef David Blaine was on to something about Gen and Alan unfortunately his voice was left into an empty void until Chef Ramsay calmly and firmly ripped Alan a new asshole. Gen was also ripped a new asshole from Gordon. It’s very unfortunate that David Blaine has had the last laugh but didn’t get to witness the ass reaming from Chef Ramsay
Gordon acted like a father to Daniel on few days more than Daniel's parents for years
I've been eating food my entire life. I can open my own restaurant and be the head chef because I''ve eaten food all my life. Almost every single day of my life I've eaten food. I can do this!!
"I appreciate it enormously. I hope we can improve." 4 minutes ago: "The nerve of Gordon to bring these yelpers to me!!"
Ahh, this one.  So many stories around this two parter. Yes it’s heavily edited, but this is one of the few times things were really as bad as they seemed.  If not worse
We can all admit, that Gordon Ramsay doesen't only save restaurants, he saves families. <3
‘What is that strong taste I’m tasting.’  Flavour, Gen. Its called Flavour
Windy looks just like Anne Heche I couldn't get over that while watching this
Yes! It was an award winning burger! Probably for "Worst burger in the city"!
That was an award winning burger                                  The award was: What to throw in the garbage
my kids' lose their shit if i take one of their yogurts😂
its called SEASONING gen. Like goddamn I hated her so much in this episode, more than Allan, who I still heavily despised.
Do it, and you too may end up on TV and meet Gordon Ramsey!
i absolutely love the suspense of   "It was as bad as it seemed"   (Building Ambience)  "If not worse"   Please write a horror novel. You have a natural talent because bro i felt something reading this comment ❤
Props to korea for holding two dystopias in a single peninsula
"Most of the victims were children" isn't clear enough. 82% of the Sewol's dead victims were kids. EIGHTY TWO PERCENT. It was a class trip for the whole grade.
"The economy relies too much on Samsung to have its leader in jail". Now that's dystopian
me: taking rest after hard work  youtube: your country is dystopia
It's kinda crazy how we just never hear about any of this stuff in the US because we seem to have this high opinion of S. Korea just for the simple fact that they're not N. Korea
fitting two polar opposite dystopias on a tiny peninsula is truly remarkable
i dont have youtube premium, but these guys make my basic youtube a premium experience
I am from the city where Sewol victims are from - my house is less than 1 km from the Danwon Highschool, Ansan-si, where all the students belonged. Still remember it like yesterday. Friends lost their siblings, one of the victim's father committed suicide, and so on. But the most horrible thing I remember were the trucks that roamed around the city with loud microphone, saying "Losing your children are not something to brag about or plead justice to the government. Do not try to make a deal with the government with your already dead family, get over it, and shut your mouth about making commemorative space in the park. You victim families are disgrace to our society." I guarantee I heard this kind of truck-speeches until like 3 years ago. To be honest, I hate this country.
I'm convinced fern only made this video to flex their new water animation skills holy damn
"above the law" is such an insane power to have, I cant imagine having that much power
여기 진짜 가관인게 자기 상상 속의 무언가를 끄집어내서 한국의 문제를 진단하고 있음 ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 아니 나도 한국에서 살고 있고 한국에 문제점들이 있다는 걸 알고 있고, 당연히 비판할 수 있다고 생각함. 근데 자꾸 자기 결론에 근거를 끼워 맞추느라 현실과 동떨어진 얘길 하고 있는게 문제지. 그걸 가장 잘 보여주는 의견이 "한국은 법 위에 이재용이 군림한다. 한국은 재벌들이 통제하는 나라니까 이걸 바꾸기 위해 '유산세'를 도입할 필요가 있다" 라는 말임. 한국 기업인들 상속세 비율이 상당히 높은 편인데 수치 조차 모른다는거지. 그냥 자기가 상상하는 "재벌들이 지배하는 또다른 북한, 디스토피아 한국" 이라는 틀에 맞춰가며 상상의 나래를 펼치고 있음.  이러면 또 "유산세가 필요한데 도입을 안한다" 에서 방향을 틀어서 "상속세를 덜 낼 방안을 궁리하는데 이런 나라가 디스토피아가 아니냐?" 라고 하지. 그러면 과연 미국의 수많은 부자들은 절세를 위해 재단을 만들고 편법을 쓰는 건 뭘까? 그리고 미국 뿐만 아니라 "자본주의" 라는 요소가 존재하는 모든 국가에서 생기는 일인데다 한국보다 부패한 나라에선 더 심각하게 이뤄지고 있는데, 이게 "한국이 유독 디스토피아인 이유"가 될 수 있는건가? 아니지. "자본주의 사회의 개선해야 할 문제점" 정도는 될 수 있겠지. 그리고 그런 행동 자체는 잘못된 게 맞고.  그리고 저런 생각을 하는 사람들은 일단 생각이 과거에 머물러 있어서 "삼성이 군림하는 한국"이란 틀에 맞추기 위해 "한국을 지배하는 삼성 직원은 가장 선망받는 직업군이며 한국인들은 이것을 위해서만 산다"는 듯이 묘사하곤 함. 실제로 한국에서 가장 선망 받는 직업은 의사, 판사, 검사 등의 전문적인 직종임. 물론 삼성은 큰 규모의 기업이고 취직한다면 좋은 일이지. 하지만 그건 취직 준비하던 친구가 좋은 데 취직했다고 해서 축하할 일인거지 디스토피아 한국을 지배하는 집단에 들어가서 축하한다는게 아니라고 ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 외국에서도 취직 준비 하던 젊은이가 애플이나 다른 대기업에 취직하면 축하받을 일인 것처럼 말이야. 그리고 요즘엔 삼성이 다소 흔들릴 때 SK는 상대적으로 안정성을 지니고 있어서 삼성이 아니라도 다른 회사에 취직하는 것도 방법 중 하나임.   앞서 말했듯이, 한국사회는 완벽한 사회가 아니고 문제가 있어. 하지만 문제를 과장하고 현실과 괴리된 얘기를 하는 건 잘못 된거야.
Advice I got from a very experienced sailor: If you're ever on a passenger ship and something seems wrong, the crew will always tell you to remain in place.  NEVER listen to them. Always put on your life jacket and go to the deck. Don't let anyone stop you. And if the ship is listing (i.e. leaning to one side), go to the side it's leaning toward, as in the side that's closer to the water. Because the lifeboats on the other side will be useless as they'll be hanging over the hull and likely to capsize if lowered.
Fun fact South Korea's top 10 family-owned conglomerates, like Samsung, Hyundai, and LG, contribute nearly 60% of the nation's GDP.
RIP to all the 179 people who died in yesterday's jeju Airlines crash
I got my heart ripped open the first time I heard about the Sewol Ferry Incident (from Rotten Mango.)  It's honestly still un-fucking-believable hearing it a second time.
How to escape accountability (the rich edition) 1. Let the sentence be severe to please the public 2. Do the sentence but only until the public forgets about their crime 3. Quietly reduce and pardon the sentence 4. Profit
South Korea's economy is the exact concept of techno-feudalism talked about by Yanis Varoufakis (Greek finance minister in 2015). He basically conceptualized that capitalism is long gone but we haven't realized it yet because economic shifts happen cross-generationally. He does a good job of pointing out how we, through our own human nature, reverted back to feudalism, where in which the government has become the lord (operating through subsidies), CEOs are the vassals, corporations are the fiefs, and employees are the serfs.
“Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable"
 @andrewbay8891  as much as people want to blame America for a lot of stuff, South Korea's issues really isn't related to them
 @GameFuMaster  ehhh it was tangentially related, since the us is a major backer of the imf, and a lot of the problems of modern sk (monopolies, extreme capitalism, deregulation, etc.) orginiated from the terms of their imf bailout after its financial crisis, many of which were draconian and punitive in nature
We are reaching levels of BASED previously not even thought possible.
 @esda2345i6oo  Before that, Chaebols were a result of a time of dictatorship, where certain companies got a lot of government grants, and became industrial powerhouses.  And after a bunch of government changes, their powers just haven't been reigned in.  This is a different situation to Japan's Plaza Accord.
It's funny because they're both dystopias but on the opposite side. One is a communist dictatorial dystopia while the other is a capitalist "democratic" dystopia.
It's almost like humans are not meant to be held back by borders.
They may be separated, but still not gonna be too far off from each other, certain underlying values will stay the same..
Crazy how both countries somehow have the worst side of capitalism and communism 🤣
 @andrewbay8891  what do you mean foreign? China is technically Korea, as experts have proved.
As a German from a formerly divided nation I have to tip my hat
Youre relying on one dystopia to paint you a picture of what the other is like? Cool I guess
thanks to a certain rogue armed policed nation in the western continent
How is this comment on every single video about Korea. You people act like bots.
As sad as this is, I cracked up reading this. Top tier Comment
 @GameFuMaster  Who put on those dictators in power? The USA bears as much blame for SK’s problems as the USSR and China regarding NK.
 @mosshugswalls  westerners saying these not realizing their in it too is crazy oblivious
I Don't think Megacorps is a exclusively korean thing...  what do you think amazon does? even worse since they don't pay adequate wages. compared to korean mega corps.  and these Chaebols. it's not like you don't have them in the rest of the world? they just go by diffrent names lol.
 @ad_astra468  while you're at it, why not blame US for Japan's occupation of Korea
@GameFuMaster How so? Isn't this our capitalist model at work in overdrive?
@ That makes no sense, I am blaming the US for what it did not for what another country did.  After WW2 Korea was split between the USSR and the USA and just like the USSR imposed communism and supported dictators in NK so did the USA in SK. In particular Pak Chung Hee which ruled for 18 years and heavily favored chaebols.
 @ryno4ever433  capitalism involves no government subsidies/tax breaks or incentives.  This is more like a mix of socialism and democracy.
 @ad_astra468  SK has had plenty of time to dismantle the chaebols if it wanted to.
North Korea is not a dystopia, just a country that was genocided by Americans and isolated by the western powers from the world and is trying it's best to prosper
@ “Plenty of time” the cold war ended 30 years ago, it’s not yesterday but it’s not plenty of time either.  Also how would anyone even do that without being labelled a communist in a country which is very anti communist?
 @ad_astra468  The US bears just as much blame for the NK situation, it never would have happened without the Korean War utterly destroying the nation.
​ @andrewbay8891 bruh US also has relations with Japan and Taiwan and they didn't end up like whatever Korea had become.
 @GameFuMaster  Even that early  'grant money' came from IMF/USA. And yes, Japan was similar - but a different culture and not divided into two test subjects. Oh and this is a Strawman argument; "while you're at it, why not blame US for Japan's occupation of Korea".
 @StephanParry  It's a strawman to blame USA for chaebols in the first place.
 @esda2345i6oo  It's President Park Chunghee who's largely responsible for the creation of "Chaebols".  These Chaebols - Samsung, Hyundai, LG, SK, etc - are basically modern-day monarchs in S. Korea.  They existed decades before the IMF bailout and will exist for the foreseeable future. They are very well connected in politics and the rest of the power structure in S. Korea.
 @yoinkyyoink yo fr tho 😭 it doesnt even matter if its capitalist or communist, its either the people or the government and its complices
This video is exaggerating generic flaws of capitalism that appears in ANY COUNTRY. Lately I see many videos like this, especially with Korea, maybe because it gets lots of views  To counter the video's argument, gini coefficient(income inequality) of Korea is lower than that of USA, Italy, Spain.  Wealth gap is so much worse in the USA, China, ... than in Korea.   Also, at least the illegal coalitions were investigated and punished in Korea. In 3rd world countries, it won't even be investigated or noticed lol.   Also, Any country is a dystopia when using such tragedies like this as a base of the claim. Example: terrorist attacks, pickpockets, r@pe in Europe gun violence, drug overdose, obesity in the USA and scandals like Jeffery Epstein  This video is exaggerating generic flaws of capitalism that appears in ANY COUNTRY.+ Any country has its flaws and can be portrayed as dystopia, except maybe swiss, denmark.
 @GameFuMaster  Genuinely a baffling statement to me. I mean I can see why it would look this way if you 'zoom in' to the last 10 years or so. But one only needs to take a glance at South Korea's rapid growth of monopoly and finance capital (especially for that region of the world) to see the hallmarks of US influence all over. South Korea being the only first world country east of the Persian gulf isn't a coincidence, it's a result of decades of US financial, cultural, military and economic interference.  The U.S.-backed dictators, starting with Syngman Rhee and later Park Chung-hee, facilitated the rise of chaebols by providing them with state resources, subsidies, and low-interest loans, as well as export licenses for shipping goods and raw materials out of Korea and into the U.S. directly, sidelining labour and democracy in the process, of course. This fact alone makes your statement utterly absurd.  No fundamental structural reforms were ever enacted and thus those neo-colonial structures are embedded deeply within the very fabric of Korea, accompanied with the continued military presence and domination, we are never getting out of the mud.
​ @tubNZ  wrong. They've had decades of independence to form their own path. This level of cognitive dissonance and blame shifting is stupid, lmao.  Own up to their own failures.
 @Onionaniamtions  lmfaooo, cyberpunk. Couldnt have said it better. A futuristic world full of flashing lights and tech, overrun by corporations
@ went there two years ago,honestly great place to visit but probably would've sucked to live there
​@andrewbay8891 all countries of the world are affected by "foreign" country
 @smurfdaddy420 it's not communist. Communism is when there is no state and the means of production are owned by the community. Does that sound like North Korea?
Still no one tries to leave south Korea to North Korea, but lots of people die trying the opposite journey
 @GameFuMaster  It is actually directly resulted to America. It’s kind of cute you don’t see the connection.
 @GameFuMaster  It absolutely is if you've ever looked at how America installed a puppet goverment during the Korean war. It destroyed their goverment structure, this problem was never resolved and thus it lead to this neo liberal dystopia, the cause is infact forein intervention.
The issue of South Korea is that it has always been controlled by a few people. Philippine is too. Without USA it wouldn't have survived and thrived to where it is now. South Korea didn't invent any of the technology that it has, most are given by the American. Samsung sold rice under Japanese occupation and cheap electrical goods during the 80s and 90s. How did it become the top most influential company in electronics and surpassed Japan? In WW2, only Japan has the know-how and technology to take on the west, china and Korean peninsular.
 @bluegamer4210  Conspiracy theory.  The country was at war, and losing at a point.
 @pwbandwidth  You forgetting Japan?  If US intervened during SK independence, you'd guys would have something else to complain.  No helping you lot.
 @mokKville44 Now this is a blatant lie…  Don’t get me wrong, SK isn’t a great place, but at least the population in SK isn’t starving in work camps, unable to leave the country with a completely false reality of the outside world being painted by the government.
​ @peachyjam9440  It still is. Again, even though you can vote people in to power, at the end of the day the ruling party is still the Peoples Party, and has been since Kim Il Sung. And also, the average citizen cant leave the country
 @default9314  I don't see how that has anything to do with modern day chaebols.
 @default9314  sure, and? Chaebols were a necessary to accelerate the development of SK after the war.  No one's going to argue how economically developed and advanced SK is today.  The only thing is why haven't they been reigned in.  The US has had histories of monopolies, and it's successfully filed anti-trust suits.  You're talking like SK is still under a dictatorship.
NK isn't as bad as we are told. The strong perimeter is to keep the US out as much as it is to keep people in.
Same thing gonna happen in US too if people aren't careful.
​@simemsayss4395 Then everyone would want to live in Hawaii and the Maldives. This kind of nonsense always ignores human nature. There have been territories as long as there have been tribes. The world's oldest forts have been found in Siberia at 8,000 years old, before even farming.
 @andrewbay8891  bro bout to have the surprise of his life when he finds out communism was massively popular among the koren masses before the end of ww2 and the korean war
 @COSOsimao Yeah, you are right. Communism is a fairy tale that can never happen under any circumstance.
 @andrewbay8891  Mb but South Korea built korean capitalism, and Notrh Korea - korean socializm. Its on them fully there are no other.
South one might be the independent & mono-ethnic version of TNO Guangdong State...
 @GameFuMaster saying that the US isn’t yo blame for both Korean countries problems is absolutely insane lmao WHAT
 @GameFuMaster  Capitalism involves a private ownership of the means of production, that's it, everything that happens due to this law is part of capitalism. The bourgeois government under a capitalist system serves the capitalist class interest
 @default9314  A one party system is not a bad thing, and while that is a negative plenty of people in the world can't leave their countries either. I wouldn't call a country where you get universal free healthcare, housing, education, which is building entire districts in one go for it's people to move into from the countryside and has total control over it's own internal matters while having one of the most stable political system in the world any more of a dystopia than most countries on earth
capitalism and communism, two sides of the same coin. a third position should be adopted.
 @peachyjam9440  So what? You have democracy. People voted for this stuff didn't they? Or do socialists not like it when voting happens to not turn out the way they like?
I like how the replies blamed US for korea’s problems while the Soviets did the same thing.
​ @GameFuMaster  whatever chances SK had of eradicating unfair distribution of wealth was completely squashed by foreign influences
 @EIfric  There is no 3rd position, there is only socialism or barbarism
 @GameFuMaster  The foreign influences is for example SK still being a military vassal to the US and reliant on US market and financial systems
 @GameFuMaster  There is no democracy in a bourgeois system. The media and the parties are controlled by the owner class. It's like if a king ran a vote on whether for the next 4 years the serfs want to eat bread or porridge, technically there is a democratic vote but it was controlled by the king, in the case of western democracy it's controlleb by a ruling class that owns the economy, owns the houses, owns the media. owns the food supply, owns the political parties and so on
SK is a nice place to visit and I know a lot of people who live with an excellent standard of living and a happy life. Does it have it's problems? Yes, certainly. But it's not really any worse than other first world countries overall in terms of people's freedoms and QOL.
north korean are not even a dystopia :v , yes it was a dictatorship but not distopia
Bad things happen in capitalist country directly due to capitalism “What have we become? A bunch of communists??”
 @darasuum1462  Please at least know about the region. Independence?? Sure in name but there is a reason US forces are there and there are regular 'joint exercises' in the region. US doesn't do that level of military intervention without accompanying economic and political influence.
 @andrewbay8891  north and south korea is a result of two dictators never finishing a civil war because yes both sides had a dictator at the time
 @tubNZ  fym wrong? heck South Vietnam falling is american fault too? Its their own fault
Props to the west for holding large dystopias in 3 continents
South Korea: Facing shit from the public North Korea: First time?
 @smurfdaddy420  i think "communist" is just as much in quotations here as "democratic". both countries showcase the worst ways capitalism and communism manifest in application.
 @esda2345i6oo  As an obese person, I blame mcdonalds for my poor health. If not for mcdonalds, I would have the body of dwayne johnson!
 @GameFuMaster  Actually, they are related. If anything, what is happening in SK is by design. A test by America for what they want to apply at home.  Also, a funny thing, but it seems like some people that manages to leave North Korea actually choose to return as it is simply such a hell to live in South Korea that they much prefer the north.
 @GameFuMaster  weren't both koreas where used as proxys for wars between other major powers (USA and... correct me if im wrong china / russia?)  Id love to be corrected by other history fellas more well versed in the topic
 @GameFuMaster  The British Empire definitely has a major role in the events and circumstances which led to Japan's occupation of Korea
 @GameFuMaster  Japan's Zaibatsu were forcibly defanged by the Americans during the post war occupation, otherwise I think Japan would be in a similar situation to Korea.
I'm a Korean American who is bilingual. This video is seriously flawed for the following reasons. 1) It does not cover nor understand the unique political dynamics to South Korea which has struggled due to the power struggles between the pro U.S. / West / democracy / free market / conservatives vs. the Pro China / North Korea / Socialized Chinese Communist Party like 'progressives' cloaked under the name of 'Democracy'. This 'progressive' opposition party is the farthest from being truly progressive. They've been doing whatever it takes to impeach the President Yoon to prevent its leader, Lee, Jae-Myung, convicted criminal to go to prison. North Korea's official name is the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and we all know they are the farthest from being 'Democratic' in the world. Political chaos you see right now in South Korea since the short-lived martial law in South Korea is the results of the 'progressive' opposition party's relentless propaganda campaign to impeach the President Yoon ever since his inauguration 2.5 years ago. The opposition party used its majority state since 2024 March to pass laws to prevent its leader Lee Jae-Myung to go to prison, to impeach ministers and government officials who interfered with their agenda 26 times, to slash the government budgets, etc. to sabotage South Korea's government while increasing their own salary. The opposition party's goal is to align South Korea with China and North Korea by impeaching President Yoon who firmed up the security alliance with the U.S. and Japan since he became President. China and North Korea are behind the 'progressive' opposition party who has been engaged in relentless and ruthless propaganda, lies, fake news, misinformation, and disinformation campaign for decades. They are masters of using these tactics like Chinese Communist Party, North Korea, and Russia.  The ideological war between western style democracy/free economy and the socialists cloaked in the name of being 'progressive' and 'Democracy' in South Korea has been on going since 1945. North Korea and the gap between the Haves and the Have Nots have been sources for this struggle /battle, but for the last 10+ years China's silent invasion - - political / cultural / economical influences / involvement in fraudulent election results  - -  into South Korea has been the biggest factor. 2) The impeached President Park did not take 1 cent of bribes. Please do the proper research correctly before you publish this kind of flawed 'documentary' by repeating what South Korea's progressives portrayed as the accounts of events in South Korea. The 'progressive' party took advantage of the tragic Sewol ferry accident to impeach President Park. They blamed President Park to be responsible for a ferry company's safety violations and packaged this incident as an impeachable offence and she was removed from Presidency by the Constitutional Court which was packed with the 'progressive' judges. They are using the same tactic. They packaged the short-lived martial law as an impeachable offence and passed the petition for impeachment of the Current President. They have used all kinds of sabotage tactics to stop the normal running of country for 2.5 years ever since they lost election in 2022. They've engaged in relentless, viscous, and ruthless propaganda campaign of fakes news, lies, disinformation and misinformation campaign against President Yoon, his government and his family. They impeached 26 ministers and government appointees in 2.5 years. Many South Koreans believe the opposition party gained the current majority state by fraudulent election in 2024 Spring and they have many evidence for that. That is why President Yoon sent a group of martial law solders to the national election administration to seize the evidence for fraudulent election. Not sure if they succeeded because President Yoon removed his martial law declaration according the the request of Congress after 2 hours. 3) Historically, China considered themselves as the center nation in the world and Korea as one of its subordinates feudal states who were inferior to them. The U.S. / West / Japan have locked their doors against China in terms of transfer of technology, their markets, capital, etc. China wants to take over the entire Korean Peninsula by impeaching President Yoon, driving out the U.S. military from South Korea, and breaking the U.S. - South Korea - Japan's Security Alliance in this global power struggle between the U.S. / West vs. Russia / China,  4) This program vilified South Korea's Chaebols unfairly. They are the products of how South Korea's past leadership relied on in order to mobilize its national resources to bring the nation out of poverty since 1960's. Korea's last king died in 1919 and Japan annexed Korea by force in 1910. Korea was under Japan's brutal and forceful occupation until 1945 and then the Korean War - - the proxy war between the U.S. / UN and China/Russia fought in Korean Peninsula - - broke in 1950. Comat ended with the Korean Armistice Agreement in 1953. 5) President Park Chung-Hee scraped non existing resources together from the war ravaged South Korea  - - wages sent home by Koreans worked as nurses and coal miners in West Germany, some international loans, smart and capable Korean business people - - and launched the miracle of Han River economic development. 6) This program's description of President Park Chung-Hee ruling by iron fist probably makes sense from perspectives of Westerners. However, South Korea has had to struggle with the forces who have always tried to overthrow its national identity as a democratic / free market / a nation ruled by laws in order to change it into a country aligned with Chinese Communist Party and North Korea. This struggle has been on-going since 1945. The current opposition party wants to impeach President Yoon now instead of waiting for the next election cycle in order to avoid the opposition party's leader Lee's going to prison. Lee has been facing 4 charges and 7 of his previous associates died by 'suicides' in the last 2 - 3 years.  7) Power in South Korea means the ability to control South Korea's resources. 8) This program repeats the 'Progressive' party's accounts of things instead of being objective after understanding South Korea's politics, economy, significant events in its historical context. What we're experiencing and seeing now does not show up out of nothing.
 @esda2345i6oo  to pretend the IMF is not a tool used by the oligarchs of the USA to control korea shows how out of touch you are.
Jesus, this comment has already made my 2025 a great one 👍 😂
 @GameFuMaster South AND North Korea’s issues are almost completely due to American war profiteering and dominance over foreign relations.
 @GameFuMaster  lmao. you need to read about the history after the korean war.
 @susugam3004  lmao, you need to understand how living in the present means.
 @GameFuMaster American is absolutely part to blame however I would say they are a small part.
The Capitalist and the Communist version.   I always thought that capitalism is only slighter better than communism. Now I have proof!
People misuse the word dystopia. At least South Korea has the power to get rid of these people, while North Korea does not.
 @GameFuMaster  Guy doesn't know how history affects the present. Doesn't understand a thing about geopolitical tensions and relationships. Bro needs to stick to playing Hearthstone and Overwatch because this shit seems to be  a tad above his pay grade.
 @dshyon  It's 100% hilarious to me when people think what someone has posted on their youtube channel... years ago... speaks about their current understanding of the world.  Buddy, you've only ever uploaded 1 video of you going to a baseball game.  Stick to the guy who sits in the audience, rather than the one actually in the field.  Because at the very least, my videos are about me doing the work, while you're literally a background character LMAO
They are “ahead” of the rest of the world. Perhaps this is a warning?
 @GameFuMaster  Wow, I go out and experience real life instead of making a video game channel and self proclaiming myself as a "GameFuMaster". You really got me buddy! Must've done some stupid shit for you to be relegated to a "background character" and stop posting said videos judging by the comments on your own videos LOL  Again, brush up on geopolitical tensions, politics, and history buddy and maybe you wouldn't be making a fool out of yourself on here.
 @dshyon  Not sure how democratically elected politicians failing to reign in conglomerates have anything to do with geopolitical tensions.  Not sure how experiencing real life is letting you learn about geopolitical tensions, politics, and history. Don't you have to read those things up?  Given your responses, you may be going wayyyyy over your head. Guess who tends to be the most knowlegeable people? Those who don't go outside because they're spending time learning/reading than watching adults playing catch with one another.  Get schooled.
 @yxl72  Unlike NK, SK wasnt bombed into the stone age with game ending about 20% of their population be Freeest nation in the world.
 @dshyon  yeap. hes a typical american\westerner. Historical context for the them exist only when its beneficial to them.
 @GameFuMaster  no it really is. Occupied by the US military since the US lost the Korean war to the North. Did you know that US troops in Sough Korea have operational seniority in war conditions?. They have no sovereignty, Just like  Australia
Both of them started from dictatorship , and supported by two super power behind.
 @esda2345i6oo 2 minutes it and it has nothing to do with capitalism it has to do with HUMAN greed
 @userpmzjah82  I dunno about swiss but in denmark don't you have to pick your kids name from a book? That very idea is wild to me. Swiss all I know about them is they make excellent arms dealers. Neutrality sells to both sides after all. That's too capitalist to some.
 @tubNZ nope we’re in 2025 where we explain why someone’s wrong and not just dumbly claim so
 @esda2345i6oo not related, NK needs to mind its business and maybe SK will thrive
 @MarsM13  BNW would be a massive IMPROVEMENT. At least people there are mostly happy and employed, with nearly perfect labor rights
 @GameFuMaster  Bro thinks the general public that elected officials in want more regulations for chaebols (they don't). You understand how democracy works, correct?  These chaebols were formed from direct US financial assistance post-war, a war that they pretty much started beefing with the Soviet Union. SK quite literally needs these conglomerates to survive given their geopolitical location being next to NK and China. Who do you think funds national defense? Do you know which country is the most important when it comes to trade? (You don't) Why does China constantly threaten ban of Korean imports? What does this mean for the Korean economy?  Bro says he stays at home and reads. Didn't learn anything LMAO. Turns out I can go outside and experience the real world and still be smarter than you.  "Get schooled"
 @GameFuMaster  It’s not that people want to blame America for stuff, it’s the fact that America keeps doing said stuff lmao
I have an idea, just hear me out - let's combine them, and see if it creates a super dystop!
Come on, dude, this video doesnt make you think that probably they ve been lying to you about the other korea, too? You guys cannot be that brain washed...
 @peachyjam9440  Sure there is, Third Positionist politics include the Mosleyite, National Socialist, Francoist, National Bolshevism, Ecofascism, Identitarianism, and many more ideologies.
@EIfric  Which is just fascism, which is just the final stage of capitalism/imperialism aka the highest form of disgusting barbarism as I said
Reminds me of how in Squid Game Sai Byuk struggled to say which country was worse.
 @sayastra  They fled North Korea because they believed the South Korean propaganda and thought they'd be richer and more prosperous in the South, they ended up separated, a human trafficker scammed them and she became a criminal who could barely survive and joined a death game for money where she died. I think it's very clean which one was worse
 @andrewbay8891  NK are far less beholden to Russia than SK are to the US. You are kidding yourself if you think otherwise.
And yet the GDP per capita by purchasing power AFTER taxes in 2024, *South Korea scored #4 in all of OECD countries at $55,000* according to "OECD Taxing Wages."   Last December, Japanese media was abuzz with alarm at how South Korea has surpassed Japan in GDP per capita, when it was expected to do that in 2027. (South Korea already exceeded Japan by purchasing power per capita in 2018)  Btw for taxing wages, America scored $50,000. The key was US having twice as much taxes. Germany scored $54,000, Japan scored $42,000  South Korea just has a different system than others, this video is driving a false narrative, a mountain of a molehill. It worked for the last few decades, like that doesn't account for anything?  Reminds of another ridiculous video how it claims the previous Samsung owner's death was some secret and said Samsung was run by a zombie, but in reality EVERYONE in South Korea knew he was dead.  Lee Kwan Yew ran a very unique system in Singapore and it has prospered immensely under his iron fist. What's the problem? It worked.
If Korea is dystopia, rest of the World is hell lol
Why exactly is North Korea a dystopia? Because they don't have YouTube comments or something?
a place where people suffer from no hunger, truly a modern day distopia
You may thank Amerikkka for that. Korea wouldn't be in the position it is in today wasn't it for Amerikkkan(WeSStern) Imperialism and Neo-Colonialism.
 @esda2345i6oo  That sounds familiar. Didn't we do similiar things to post-Soviet Russia?
 @peachyjam9440  Italian Fascism is quite dissimilar to many of the ideologies I just listed, and I can list many more. And by the way, there are no "stages" to capitalism or imperialism, both of which are also incomparable. Fascism is a political theory thought up by Italian philosopher Giovanni Gentile as an alternative to western democracy and eastern bolshevism, aka, a Third Position. Educate yourself please, you're just spewing nonsense.
@EIfric  There are stages to capitalism just as there are stages of development to literally everything in the world, liberals don't know about it and don't have theory of it but Marxism provides a detailed account of the continuous stages of capitalist development and divergent paths. Fascism takes away any power from the people and puts it in the hands of an elite class, something that capitalism always marches towards. Modern Imperialism is a direct consequence of capitalist functions and is what led to WW1, then the crisis of capitalist society in an imperialist game for dominance bred fascist sentiment leading to WW2 when we could've saved ourselves with a worker's social revolution. You just tried to in the exact same comment to argue that Italian Fascism is very different to the others and that Fascism is an Italian 3rd position that you support. Fascism directly preserves capitalism and even monopoly capitalism, it was made precisely to preserve capitalism and enforces disgusting hierarchical power structures in a class society in face of a revolution and continually exploit the workers of the world, it is inherently harmful and unstable. I'm not going to further discuss anything with anti-human trash
@ElJewPacabrah  "Living at home" yea, I do live at home, where do you live? On the street? Is this some hip new trend to live under a bridge instead?
peninsula single a in dystopias two holding for korea to Props
Typical common sense low intelligent comment. North Korea is not a dystopia.
It‘s nothing compared to America’s Wall street, insurance companies, the military industrial complex, and tech giants
​@GameFuMaster the part where Korea had to split in two separate countries was definatelly a deal between USRR and USA.
 @mosshugswalls  Do you understand the concept of false equivalence? 😅  South Korea is a dystopia, North Korea is just anti-fascist/anti-imperialist and the victim of decades of imperialist economic and political warfare.
 @esda2345i6oo  damn you're telling me I have to pick an imf dystopia or a communist dystopia if I want to live anywhere on that peninsula?
@GameFuMaster let's see here  1. You've been proven wrong multiple times to the point you're hoping that insulting people will make you seem correct  2. Your ego is insufferable and the idea you actually believed what you do on your channel means you have knowledge in geopolitics is laughable. 3. I'm not gonna tell you to touch grass, I'm gonna tell you to get over yourself because you're not as smart as you think you are. 4. If you have to insult people to debate your point then you might want to consider that you don't know what you're talking about.
 @GameFuMaster  It's way deeper than America. If you were to look very deep, as deep as it goes, you'd find that it always comes down to a certain group of people.
​ @esda2345i6oo South Korea is an oligarchy. The lack of capitalism is the problem as the control is held by the government using its power to elevate parties outside market pressures. Exactly none of this is the result of the free market and it's forces. The country barely qualifies as capitalist.
​@ObjectiveAnalysis  you make it sound like North and South had been separated since the beginning. You also make it sound like the North is a desolate piece of land when it's still ran by a leader and a form of government.
When corrupt chaebols and government officials join hands singing 'Kumbaya,' it's less a harmony of unity and more the 'incompetence dance' of dystopia. skor will fall like many
Would still rather live in South Korea if I had to choose
 @mosshugswalls  the two are really not equally dystopian. I mean SK is a liberal democracy with excellent health and good incomes, it really is not that dystopian when you compare to the rest of the world.
The problem  is corruption.   Standards are Standards.   NO,  you don't build a marble art gallery on a ship.  No,  you don't then add a bunch of cargo containers on the front.      FOLLOW THE ENGINEERING  Specs with  Common Sense and   LARGE Margins of safety...   And why put  so many children in One Ship ?    That's  Just NOT SMART.    Keep those safety margins,  don't go above 80% capacity on a ferry...  ALL Ships world wide need safety standards,   life vests, and a crew that  RAPIDLY evacuates people to trustworthy life boats even if the main ship isn't sinking.    Safety First Always.
 @GameFuMaster  They are in full control of the South Korean military. They knew about the coup and approved it. Watch Jake Sullivan's interview, where he refused to condemn the coup. They are pretty much the root of South Korea's problem.
 @MogManDog  The US is not in full control of the SK military.
North Korea is not a dystopia. it's a sovereign country free of Western domination.
​ @GameFuMaster  the US literally intervened when Korea was having its own crisis and the US chose to back the capitalists. If Korea sorted out thier own problems they may have created something better north or south Korea. The US can never mind its own business.
Sad reality is one is propped up by China the other is the U.S.
 @DharmaPunk111  like the US intervened with Britain after WW2 (loans), or Japan (reconstruction), or Germany?
 @GameFuMaster so America and Soviet Union didn’t split the country with out their knowledge?
 @kooganh6276  not sure what that has to do with Chaebols, but keep going on about irrelevant things.  You want to start talking about reparations for blacks in America as well while you're at it.
 @GameFuMaster  where did the black part even come from….im reading my response and my god that was so lame and uncalled for..
Give due credit where it's due. America shaped both countries, killing 25% of the civilian population in the North and leveling nearly every building there, and propping up anti-communist dictators in the South prior to, and following the Korean war.  Of course it was also two Americans that randomly split Korea in half as well, with zero actual thought going into the delimiter other than "well the 35th parallel is kind of in the middle".
@ preach sir. Not to mention NK was on Track to be one of the super powers with how much rich resources they had…America bombed them into the Stone Age.
 @kooganh6276  you're arguing irrelevant history to back up modern claims.  Your whole argument is lame and uncalled for.
 @GameFuMaster  holy i didnt expect to mention Japan's Plaza Accord. the parallels w/ korean  yea
@GameFuMaster The US likes their business dynasties as well. They don't just have business dynasties, they've political ones as well. The sole reason they stay successful is H-1B import challenging existing power structures.
​​ @ad_astra468  Yes, both Russia and America have the same policy and interests they pretend to be hostile to justify their wars that take place outside their lands..
we dont know about the one from the north. Not really.
South Korea isn't a dystopia in any meaning of it. This video exaggerates all the bad sides of Korea and fails to mention a single positive, even though there are many. I live in Seoul btw.
 @GameFuMaster  blud the country got SPLIT IN HALF because of foreign powers 💀
The DPRK has, as far as we know, created good living standards, or at the very least the bare minimum, for free for it's citizens, when in the south, you will die if you don't work for hours upon hours every single day. I know which one I'd pick.
 @EZWH-iv8fw  what makes you think it's free? lol. If you don't have a job, you will be given one. Basically no different than being given a prison sentence for being jobless.
 @andrewbay8891   The result of foreign powers is the primary reason they're not in a worse version of 1984
it wouldnt of been two if usa didnt give them a friendly hand, props to them too
we have more homeless in the U.S. , per capita and by numbers
​ @esda2345i6oo  the imf bailout plan and what the government did to boost the economy was a pretty good plan, turning the families into monarchs that can't be held responsible for anything by anyone was a bad idea
This is my stolen comment that I made viral on Reallifelore’s video 😂
@fg009letyrds8  Absolutely hilarious, South Korea modeled it's economic growth on Japan and shares a lot of the same problems, same goes for Taiwan which also has one of the lowest birth rates on earth. Don't try to single out Korea among it's East Asian peers as if the rest is any different.
Its crazy how bad south korea is and its somehow still might be 100x better than north korea
 @jaegerolfa  you're the type to blame your failure of your life entirely on your parents I guess. Since the creation of your life was through your parents, so you have no agency.
​@GameFuMaster  Incorrect, South Korea was not just influenced by America, but built by it.  Not only did America use the Vietnam War to help explode south korea's economy, but it also had many Americans work with South Korea to work on its economy.  More importantly America has stepped in many times, like when Samsung's ceo was arrested Biden visited South Korea and the ceo was magically freed soon after.  America also has a constant military presence to ensure South Korea's continued existence.  The same is done for North Korea by China.  It would be best for Korea if both states were disarmed then left to collapse, so a less extreme unified Korea could take the whole peninsula.  That is nearly impossible though without nuclear war basically resetting humanity, so it's a bleak situation.
내가 뭘 본거지.. 이 영상 만든 사람 한국에 와본적도 없다에 내 왼쪽 불알을 건다. 너무 소설이잖아 ㅋㅋㅋ
It's your fault for delusionally believing that there's such a thing as utopia.
corny, South Korea has its issues but it's certainly not a dystopia, it's a healthy democracy for the most part, with a strong social safety net.
 @esda2345i6oo  Extreme capitalism? In many ways South Korea is social democratic, they have a large social safety net, the presence of big business doesn't make them a hellhole.
​ @andrewbay8891  A lot of countries have that problem but this is all South Korea
 @sara.cbc92    I think this video is more about the content creator's European enviousness toward south korea's capability to thrive while technically being at war with its neighbor, that is based on the delusional George Orwell's political prejudice using the European sociopolitical prejudice.    Because the fact is that the Philippines' ruling class (that was also manufactured by the United States' government) including the Catholic Church...  is actually much more corrupt than the south korea's government.  And yet he's not calling the Philippines: "Philippines is a dystopia".   Most likely he's picturing south korea as a dystopia based on the delusional George Orwell's political prejudice, because he's frustrated of the fact that his country's cultural export doesn't thriving enough as much as the other countries'.   And his superficial analysis and neglect to mention the cause of the KCIA acts.
Bruh, that is why we Koreans call it "Hellfire peninsula" 🔥
Coin flip on which dystopian society you get oppressive regime or capitalism caused mess!!!!!
 @antagonist4823  you're missing the point that these were the children of parents. A whole generation lost.
absolutely horrifying, i cant imagine how scary it was for them. its insane how corrupt people can be :(
 @antagonist4823  WHAT. 18 year olds ARE CHILDREN. they have 80% of their life left to live. also this age group is crucial to any nations economy
 @puppuppupuppup  sorry to break it to you but everything is political. if something is inherently political, its not called "used politically." their death was caused by literal politics
​ @antagonist4823 brother, they were still in HIGHSCHOOL. Who cares what you think if they're kids or not, read the room man
You're still not clear enough. 82% of what??  1000? 20million?
 @YeahNoTellTheTruth  20 million? It's a ferry so you can pretty much come to that conclusion by yourself, if you just used your brain. Also the video actually mentioned how many people died
Children's or not they're humans, it doesn't matter what age dies....THEY DIED
Actually, it was clear enough. Don't put down the narrator just because you wanted to clarify. Bum.
"It is unbelievable that 82% of the victims of the disaster were children. This was a school trip for an entire school group. We need to remember and honor the souls lost, as well as learn from this painful event to prevent similar accidents in the future."
one of the driver took his own life after the incident because what he saw was so horrible he couldn't stand it
The whole video is rubbish. Never actually gets into the inequality of wealth problem but talks about a cult leader the entire time lol.
never ever explains the legal aspects. This kind of video is what makes people more extreme and frankly illiterate.
Sadly they were around my age. I remember my class talking about the incident and how important it is to not simply listen to authorities especially when something sketchy is going on (like when the boat was slowly turning 180 degrees but they keep telling them to stay inside wtf). If they were alive today they would be around 25-27 years old..it sucks.
@Youmu_Konpaku_  it does matter, because adults who were supposed to protect them told them to stay in a place that was dangerous, and left them behind to die.
@YeahNoTellTheTruth  fair point. 470 people were onboard, 304 died, with 250 of those being kids from Danwon Highschool.
I don’t care those victims were kids or not. Korean declined Japanese rescue team’s offer due to anti-Japan sentiment. That’s very sad…😢
 @Timi7272  bcz he is extreme right wing and its an excuse the Korean right wing uses not to talk about or investigation of the incident.
This video is exaggerating generic flaws of capitalism that appears in ANY COUNTRY. Lately I see many videos like this, especially with Korea, maybe because it gets lots of views  To counter the video's argument, gini coefficient(income inequality) of Korea is lower than that of USA, Italy, Spain.  Wealth gap is so much worse in the USA, China, ... than in Korea.   Also, at least the illegal coalitions were investigated and punished in Korea. In 3rd world countries, it won't even be investigated or noticed lol.   Also, Any country is a dystopia when using such tragedies like this as a base of the claim. Example: terrorist attacks, pickpockets, r@pe in Europe gun violence, drug overdose, obesity in the USA and scandals like Jeffery Epstein  This video is exaggerating generic flaws of capitalism that appears in ANY COUNTRY.+ Any country has its flaws and can be portrayed as dystopia, except maybe swiss, denmark.
Who cares? Children adult? These are people no matter the age. Kids isnjust for a populist speech
Worst part is that with South Korea birth rate this was a massive loss
U know the theory every person on this planet is the same person ultimately so those deceased kids are me as well and i dont really care cuz core me is okey
I know my ass is desensitized from years of 4chan but goddamn that hard to read
Yup. In a country that hardly produces any kids anyways. Which makes it even worse than worse.
I have zero empathy for any adults who let children die while they escape.
 @hawkshot867 it happens so much, that’s why you have zero empathy for it.
How was "most of the victims" not clear? It couldn't be any more clear.
we do it in the united states with gun laws and mass shootings.......yet guns are still not banned, cuz its a poltical point and it makes money........where do you think the koreas leanrd it from? us the united states.
@ guns aren’t a political point. It’s a baseline principle that naive folks still don’t get.  I’m in Vancouver Canada. I JUST made the argument with a colleague who eventually concurred. Even if school shootings take 100 200 5000 10000 lives a year. It’s still better than living in North Korea. You can hope to improve and fix 10,000. Americans got definitely got 2A right.
 @josephp9141  just so happens that the cult leader is also extremely rich (and a chaebol) and has manipulated many government officials into obeying him. you didn't even notice that this wasn't about the wealth gap. this is about a good 30 people controlling the entire country. money is a big part in explaining the main idea, but it isn't the idea behind this video. was there a need to explain the legal aspects? at the end of the day, 400 people died in vain because one man wanted to flaunt his wealth and earn more money at the expense of all its passengers and pretty much got away with it (as in the gov't wasn't the one who punished him)
 @juanme555  Bro, what? Are you trying to say that a person magically transforms from a child to an adult between 11:59:59 and 12:00:00 on their birthday?
fun fact: all of them had a VERY high chance of survival BUT the captain who escaped the boat refused to tell officers about the children inside the boat, and instead chose to remain silent.
 @DEEYANASE   In part, also I believe it’s due to extraterritorial claims. It reminds me of the commercial plan crash happened in Japan in the late 20th century, where the Japanese government refused the US military’s offer to assist with the rescue mission as one of their planes was near-by. If they had acted promptly more people would have survived.  When it comes to internal and domestic affairs, governments prefer to keep things within their national capacity.  It’s a deeply sad story, but life is nuanced and when it comes to human decisions there’s mostly always more than one factor/reason at play.
 @nyanbinary1717   no, im saying that children are people who have NOT gone through puberty yet, this thing of infantilizing teenagers who are clearly not children is a relatively new and purely american trend, its absurd.
Dang that's even more better and beautiful. Good thing they were children otherwise it could have been worse and only been adults
It really anguishes my heart to know that this really happened in this world.
“Most of” implies exactly that, and 82% without a figure to compare it to doesn’t help much. How you and 14k others are so stupid is beyond me.
In a country with the lowest fertility rate in the world, I imagine this disaster was especially demoralizing.
In America we just send thoughts and prayers and keep on profiting baby❤
that is heart wrenching. can’t imagine what their parents are feeling knowing the bastards who are responsible get to walk around like nothing happened.
 @YeahNoTellTheTruth  of the people that were in the boat ? Are you dense ?
Nope that's pretty clear. How can you be more clear than saying most of the victim were children ? Is 82 percent not most ?
do you have the same level of outrage for Palestinian children being killed by Israel? 40000 children estimated?
 @puppuppupuppup that’s so dumb so if kids are losing their lives… noone should advocate against it????
I remember this like it was yesterday, and I didn't even live in South Korea.
​@00shivani Democrattic Party used the incident politically and blamed the government and Saenuri Party that time for being the major problem
imagine being a parent ssending your kid on a class trip and before leavign the kid is all excited about it and cant wait to tell you everything about the trip after coming back but then they never do
that ads nothing but an emotional argument appealing to emotional people. thats not relevant information, just saying. Just putting it out there.
Ofc, and the fact of the matter is in palestine majority of the victims are also children but u.s media paints them as terrorist.
That too in a country which is facing severe low growth of population.
Ok and what is the difference? Kid life is not worth more than adult. For me it's less
@ Bruh are people just dumb these days 🤦🏽‍♀️🤦🏽‍♀️🤦🏽‍♀️ yes 82% means most, but 82% is specific and most is general. The emotional gravity is not conveyed by the word “Most.” Even I didn’t realize how tragic it was until I saw this comment because most can mean 51% or 99% and one is waaayyy more serious than the other.
And then you have to consider that Korea has a very low birth rate so a lot of families lost their only child and grandchild
 @puppuppupuppup 어떠한 재난이든 정부와 정치권의 개입이 필요함 사람들의 삶에는 항상 정치와 관계가 있음 무정부상태가 아닌이상  책임자가 누구냐 따지는일이 정치적이용이라고 우기는건  오히려 희생자들을 방치하는 행위이자 국가의 존재의의에 반하는 행위임
 @puppuppupuppup  but it's totally fine when clickbait youtubers use them for money
 @puppuppupuppup  And you are just plain wrong. They're deaths were caused by political corruption, it's not 'using' their deaths for anything; it's reporting on facts which involved current political realities. I argue it's morally wrong to ignore their deaths and not dig up the root cause of the tragedy; so that it can be prevented from ever occuring again.
This and the Itaewon crowd crush gets to me since I am in the age range of both of these tragedies. All these kids and young adults are like my peers.
The children stayed in the cabin as the captain announced the passengers to stay in the cabin, but the captain abandoned the ship and escaped leaving the children in the sinking ship. It kinda is symbolic of what is happening in the country, because most of the populace are "good kids" abiding by the laws.
"most of the victims were children" --- we do this 39 times just in 2024 ALONE in the USA... it's only not labeled "dystopian" cuz many ppl here are proud of it ._.
What does it matter Tbh? If it were 100% kids, it looks like they'd still get away with it.
That’s 390 children. 82% of the total 476 aboard. Extremely devastating and I hope all of their families get the support they need and deserve during this time, and hope they are allowed the space to rightfully grieve
Holy shit, I can’t believe going to school the next day as a kid from that school, sitting in the assembly hall and just looking at the floor space where that whole cohort once stood and it just being empty :( wtf that’s so fucked up. The school must be in so much grief
@tammmmmmmmmy  it would be pretty neat, knowing that classmates you disliked and liked alike are gone now.
But 82% is most. He said most, it was clear enough
literally makes him immune. and its not a stable source of income at all.
The Banks are too big to fail. - President Obama  😆😆
source: trust me bro    what about trump pardoning many criminals?
 @userpmzjah82  what's the parallel? + you are commenting on one of the sources, wdym
 @kingkaelan8775  yes and he is an anonymous  YouTuber who just gets lots of views. This does not make him a credible source.??
 @kingkaelan8775  in the US or other countries, if you are like CEO and can afford the best lawyers, even if you committed hideous crime, you won’t even get jailed at the end right? lol you just pay a lump sum of money and get out  its not fair to think or claim that south korea is special and is a “dystopia” in this sense. This is a flaw in capitalism and occurs in ANY capitalist countries.
 @userpmzjah82  True I guess, although south Korea seems a lot more blatant. They are dystopian in the way that they are not given the right to protest, these scandals are well known and nothing is able to be done about them. In the US a public scandal usually forces the hands of prosecutors to actually enforce sentences, but in SK the families have so much power nothing can be done even if a president has intentions to curb the families' power.
You seriously believe a mere youtuber for everything lmao. The CEO went to jail already
It slightly seems like TNO Guangdong State, but independent & mono-ethnic version.
Like a board of investors and a different CEO would bring the company down? What a bunch of BS 😂
funnily enough it doesn't rely on the leader at all, it relies on all the workers. this lie thats been sold to people all over the world needs to be put to rest. they could throw him in jail and replace him with virtually anyone else and it would still run fine.
 @jaehongsong4904  He served a Extremely soft obviously corrupt sentence which was later proven to be so when he was pardoned.
but i thought consumerism and democracy were supposed to make everything perfect??? whaat?? youre telling me replacing a native people's cultural and spiritual beliefs with american capitalism DOESNT make their society more happy and better off?? huuuhhh????
 @JB-zz8mk  Funny quote cause he was cozy with the people that owned the banks
I have never liked Samsung the slightest but i never understood why, i guess it was my gut feeling?
 @JB-zz8mk  "Too big to fail" actually means "We are too corrupt to seek Justice".
Heard somewhere that 20% of South Korea's budget comes from Samsung alone..
 @EIfric  What are you even talking about? South Korea today, even with the flaws, is much more competent first world nation than what it was prior to Western influence. Almost in any standard, it's better off. It could be better, if they took example how to run you nation from Europeans, specifically from the Nordic region.
 @molotovribbentrop2839  it's a matter of sustainability. The lowest birth rates & an ever-increasing top 11 sewerside rate for a top 15 economy gives some clues to this. We can all make an argument for almost every country being better off today than many decades beforehand.
 @userpmzjah82  Obviously, the point is South Korea isn't immune from it?
I think next level of global level social skill should be never allowing any kind of organization to be too big to fail. Because it is always the "Rogue Nation" tale that ends up creating all the chaos around the globe.
 @userpmzjah82  True and you're correct in your assessment. The issue with South Korea(And USA) specifically is that they're ahead of other developed nations concerning their corruption and capitalist evolution. While EU countries for example, also have problems with corruption and corporatism, America and South Korea are magnitudes ahead in terms of a dystopian capitalist climate. But don't worry, in the end we'll all get there. The global political climate is moving towards a rightwing shift and wealth in-equality just keeps increasing as usual.
America already did that one, just with people who’s companies don’t actually produce a physical product.
Like banks to big to fail? Or all the bailouts on the automotive industry in the US. Or how about TSMC in Taiwan, that company is so important that the world collectively wont let it fall into chinese hands.
That is why you break up monopolies... cause eventually they have too much control for governments to regulate their actions.
And completely standard for capitalism. We just don't hear their names unless they are megalomaniacs like Musk.
US and Canada have this, too. Wall Street will get bailed out when they screw things up or get too greedy. In Canada we've got SNC-Lavalin which has had a lot of corruption scandals... But no punishments ever really come down because it would hurt too many Canadian workers.
How many bankers went to jail for 2008? How many banks failed?
NATIONALIZE IT this is insane...  the company runs the government anyway.
it's the same song all over the world. and it's not a new development.
"Too big to fail..." Where have I heard this before?...somewhere in 2008...let me see here...
​@mojewjewjew4420what about the dude above them seemingly obsessed with Obama? What are you really mad at? Lol
 @JB-zz8mk And then he took 6 figures a speech from those banks 😂
Chmn Lee Jaeyoung did go to jail. This docu is biased.
​@angieyonaga6639 samsung is too big to fail, just like Microsoft and others.
 @userpmzjah82 Ah yes, because capitalism is the issue. Not that every politician is on their knees and opening wide for these people. There were all of these same things in the USSR.
I knew it was profitable as a company, but generating HALF of the whole country's GDP (even if that is a record high year) is crazy.  Yeah, that would give them a massive influence, no matter what.  Damn, I like Samsung too.  I use their phones.
 @EIfric  Any form of government, when taken to extremes, has problems.  No system, we've invented so far, is without flaws, partially because we ourselves have flaws.
@angieyonaga6639 I don't find it unnormal. I think, when you carry this kind of burden, you can not be treated as normal. In my point of view, the guy is a slave to his own burden. He already in his punishment of this life. A CEO who running a company of ~300 000 men and women may take responsible for their family, 300 000X3 = 1.200.000 and making money to his country, and people still want him just as normal as we are?
And yet the GDP per capita by purchasing power AFTER taxes in 2024, *South Korea scored #4 in all of OECD countries at $55,000* according to "OECD Taxing Wages."   Last December, Japanese media was abuzz with alarm at how South Korea has surpassed Japan in GDP per capita, when it was expected to do that in 2027. (South Korea already exceeded Japan by purchasing power per capita in 2018)  Btw for taxing wages, America scored $50,000. The key was US having twice as much taxes. Germany scored $54,000, Japan scored $42,000  South Korea just has a different system than others, this video is driving a false narrative, a mountain of a molehill. It worked for the last few decades, like that doesn't account for anything?  Reminds of another ridiculous video how it claims the previous Samsung owner's death was some secret and said Samsung was run by a zombie, but in reality EVERYONE in South Korea knew he was dead.  Lee Kwan Yew ran a very unique system in Singapore and it has prospered immensely under his iron fist. What's the problem? It worked.
dystopian that's Now. "jail in leader its have to Samsung on much too relies economy The"
 @userpmzjah82  Not possible in most European countries. Board of Directors will find your replacement stat and you'll head head-first behind bars.
You honestly think we're much different? 😅 That unitedhealth ceo was literally responsible for tens of thousands of deaths and he was never even made to sit in front of a courtroom for it let alone do a year in prison.
I shouldnt have choose samsung in 2014 but Apple wouldve did the same thing🫥
its literally what we see in Cyberpunk, countries controlled by companies.
 @userpmzjah82  yeah Trump didnt pardon as much as Biden nor does he use executive power very often compared to other Presidents. He tends to let states decide their issues themselves
 @userpmzjah82  It makes him more credible than the media at least.
 @userpmzjah82 Its very different in the sense that there is no fee to pay for Samsung’s CEO. It is simply ignored. For he is the only reason S.Korea has a fundable government.
 @jaehongsong4904 Within each arrest he was either paroled or pardoned within the first year or two of his sentence so whats your point
 @lost-in-amsterdam In Samsung, the CEOs are strictly family. So yes by toppling one family member you are one step closer to not bringing down Samsung, but bringing down south korea. Once Samsung isnt forced to be grounded in SK its anyones game as far as public stock trading goes
 @Anthony-kp7sf But by replacing their ceo with someone not in the samsung family, they lose financial gain from samsung (South Korea)
 @pragueexpat5106  it’s 3%  Youtubers are not a good source of information
 @userpmzjah82  it's the difference between doing things behind the scene and doing it blatantly in front of public. At least if the scandal is known publicly, CEO can be arrested in other countries but not in Korea.
Right so basically they are saying that if someone say, unalive this Samsung prince, they can break Korea?   Cause that's what I heard.  If you can manage to unalive the head of all these three families, Korea is done for...
Also samsung's family kept giving black money to politican, that things give them a power
Im south korean and you know this video saying our country is dystopia is true lol
@ThevelvetundergroundnNico i wonder how it feels like for you guys there, i mean what i understand is one of them from some dramas that i watch but sometimes i questioned whether it's that harsh or not. Nevertheless, i wish you all could walk on flowery path (this is my fav korean idiom i learnt from drama).
 @auliareski wake up, drama is nothing to real life and bringing it there to that many tragedies is really inappropriate.
한국은 100% 디스토피아지만 이 유튜버가 말하는 이야기는 80% 자기 망상이며 사실이 아닙니다. 판타지 소설같다
 @아-o1u6r you guys are saying he's wrong but haven't explained why 😑
We don’t hear it in America because we have our own dystopian system to think about.
Its because S.Korea is our vassal. Why would they let Americans hear about anything other than western exceptionalism😂
You have worse problems in the US but everyone always looking through the window across the street
True. Though we're also not that different. At least considering a corrupt capitalist system. Consider our wealthiest businessman being the leader of the DOGE. Certainly isn't a conflict of interest. (if it becomes a real thing with real power, lol)
kinda because US would want strong ties with SK but also because SK literally pumps an industry(K pop) with overworked good looking people that it is the only thing people think of when talking about SK
⁠ @SmokeandSpirit government and big business work very closely together. Neither care about the long term economic viability of the US. They spend way too much, print the money they need, and destroy the currency. Cutting government spending is absolutely essential. If Musk can do it, it would be a blessing. But as you said, DOGE has little actual power. So, the irony of your comment is most likely irrelevant because as wealthy as Elon Musk is, his influence is greatly exaggerated. The status quo, and continuing business as usual, is easily 10x more powerful than one reform minded billionaire
I live in Wisconsin and I vividly remember seeing the “rescue” mission being reported on. And about the principal hanging himself at the dock Never heard the aftermath and corruption tho
Just live there for a few months and you’ll see all the contradictions unfold!
 @habijabi3452 but yet they have plenty of time to spread misinformation about China everyday😂
That's because the US is an even worse dystopia. I mean just look at why the CEO of UnitedHealthcare was killed. Should tell you everything. Western countries are way more top heavy and have a higher concentration of multi millionaires/billionaires. These videos are stupid as fuck for this reason. Acting like chaebols are only a Korean phenomenon is crazy considering all the family owned corporations passed down for generations in the West.
 @jevan8105 it’s not a shit show at all compared to Korea or the US
I mean, aren't Squid Games basically a Death Camp fantasy? all the emotional "message" aside, what we're watching is basically camp personnel playing cruel deadly games with the prisoners.
Don't worry. You will. Elon Musk is already one. More oligarchs to follow.
Because your own western propaganda. SK is your "friend" so talk good stuff
People obsess over Japanese and Korean culture here, it’s weird. Every culture and country has its issues, it’s crazy to think otherwise
"we just nmever hear any of this stuff" who's job is that? pathetic
you should be busy with your CIA, DONALD truph, and right now united healtcare
Because US has the same problem, controlled by a few wealthy family..
In the game industry lots of gamers praise South Korea because of their games like Stellar Blade.
Because not being North Korea is good enough, SK is bad but I’d much prefer to live there than NK hell on earth
Elon and Trump but glad those two are on the side of the people. They make everything transparent.
That's not why. We don't hear about it because South Korea is our ally. We don't want them to look bad so we tell our new agencies to focus on other things
 @razielthagreat Quite the opposite 😂. “Western exceptionalism” would mean we would hear about cases like S. Korea. Its because we infantize and fetishize other POC cultures that we don’t hear anything about it.
The reason we dont hear about these stories and content creators are censored on this very platform is because we are closer to becoming n.korea than we think...
Make no mistake, South Korea was once just as much a dictatorship as North Korea, democracy only came in 1988
In Europe we just summarize it as "NK is like Russia, SK is like USA" and hope we can somehow navigate around those extremes >_>'
 @habijabi3452 watching this video actually makes me appreciate what america is more
 @SmokeandSpirit the fact that is your biggest concern shows just how stable the us is
At a military event , I mentioned to some random civilian about South Korea openly being a military dictatorship up until the 80s.  He thought I was ignorant and confusing South Korean with North Korea.  Most Americans are incredibly s+vp¡d but their ignorance is even greater.
It's mostly because basically everywhere is some level of a dystopia.  My masters is in international relations and I've long said that it's not a healthy subject for most people mentally unless you are VERY GOOD at mentally compartmentalizing.  South Korea is a dystopia.  It is also one of the safest and easiest places to live on Earth.   This is simultaneously because it does do some things very well and because the bar is REALLY low.
According to who? Because I've been aware of the corruption and b.s. in South Korea since  around 2015
Tbh s.korea really did earned the high praised it received. It managed uplift a lot of its people from many from illiteracy and poverty. But i wont deny how korea has fostered one of the most darkest inequalities in society
Its because you hear nothing in US thats not in US best interests
 @habijabi3452  i agree, atleast in korea someone was impeached for corruption, here in the USA corruption is the heart and core of the political game
​ @ILoveFoxes-ILF  corruption is everywhere just more so in some places than others. At least they were able to grow their economy, in my country only politcans are rich 🙄
 @corbeau-_- I mean as an American you have more rights and freedoms than you’d have as a South Korean
 @jevan8105  do you live there? or did you learn it on the internet?
 @jevan8105  I haven't heard this yet.  What's going on in Sweden?
“We never hear” is such a cop out answer for to lazy to do research
Well this is still a fact. And that’s why 99% of people would move to s Korea instead of n Korea if they had to pick one.
I don’t know about you but one of the most popular shows on Netflix had characters that would rather play in death games then go back to their normal lives in South Korea
 @jevan8105  Well, you learned wrong. The issues Sweden have are down right insignificant compared to what is going on in the US. Americans just like to point out the relatively minor problems in Sweden so they can feel better about themselves.
They may be way of learning about other countries modern history/society without paralleling it to your own. Esp when the other country has its cons and critiques that parallel your own. So you began to put 2 & 2 together of what system your really living in and the practices that been normalized without historical context that puts it in new perspective.
Not in the slightest, we just choose to ignore it because in the “west” there’s an obsession with the South Korean aesthetic. Because at the end of the day K-Pop and K-Drama is far more important than what’s really going on.
No, it's just No one cares...   Do you think S.Korea hears about every single Shooting or Bus crash in America??  There's 8 Billion people in the World bro, if you were to "Get to" know about everything that happens anywhere, everyday...  You'd never stop hearing about "tragic" stuff every second, of every day.
Your fail to mention capitalism.  We don't hear about them because they're our consumers and we're theirs.  We're guilty of no less heinous crimes against rightness, but we're on the same team. Team capitalism
You Americans don't hear about a lot of stuff, in fact for half of your population, the earth is still flat lol
you can choose to hear about it if you actually select your news sources. I chose Stephanie Soo’s Rotten Mango podcast and I’ve heard about South Korea’s dystopian economy and the Sewol Ferry too many times to count 😭
You know it now but does it make a difference? Exactly.
theyre both dystopias, ones just pretty much cyberpunk 2077 and the other is half-life 2
In the US we don't really hear about anything that happens in other countries unfortunately.
We hear. Unfortunately, some don't care or by means of self-preservation, turn a blind eye and closed ears to it. We hear so much about murders, rapes, thefts etc., right here in the US that we don't have the emotional capacity to take in the same from other countries. It's tempting to pass it off as a grand conspiracy, incompetence, or some other reason, but at the core, it's really human nature. How much evil can one person contain before imploding/exploding?
That and the fact that they make cars and submarines and invest heavy in electronics and tech like Japan.
The way weeaboos typically ignore Asia except Japan, where they produce their own animations lol
Because you only hear about what you should hear - and that's why it's important that we have free speech. We need to care for it, because big entities want to take it away from us.
Hearing about it…. Get out there more. go over there n see
You might have missed it, but this was a major event that received widespread coverage in the news.
why would u expect the US to say bad things abt its military base?
We have a high opinion on them because they are a bleeding edge world leader in technological innovation namely AV and automotive. Also utilize so many products daily from LG or Samsung, perhaps a dishwasher, microwave, laundry machine, fridge, stove, etc. Or maybe you have a Kia, Hyundai, Genesis etc. And that’s only the consumer end of the spectrum. Lot of the companies operate in industrial spaces too. Korea and US are very much integrated.
@ what are you on about? School shootings have literally no connection to this video u goof. You’re tryna say school shootings is govt conspiracy?
It’s because you built South Korea. The reason SK is this way is entirely the fault of the USA
 @d9_1056   I think this video is more about the content creator's European enviousness toward south korea's capability to thrive while technically being at war with its neighbor, that is based on the delusional George Orwell's political prejudice using the European sociopolitical prejudice.    Because the fact is that the Philippines' ruling class (that was also manufactured by the United States' government) including the Catholic Church...  is actually much more corrupt than the south korea's government.  And yet he's not calling the Philippines: "Philippines is a dystopia".   Most likely he's picturing south korea as a dystopia based on the delusional George Orwell's political prejudice, because he's frustrated of the fact that his country's cultural export doesn't thriving enough as much as the other countries'.   And his superficial analysis and neglect to mention the cause of the KCIA acts.
Oversocialized hyperconformity will turn any country or system into a dystopia.
 @Reformed322  What do you define as oversocialized, and why do you feel South Koreans do not fit this definition?
It explains alot about the inspiration behind the lobotomy corp franchise, a very bizarre dystopia to be sure
Blame the world war and the cold war for that. We're lucky that South Korea isn't invaded with all this news.
Considering how good neighboring countries Taiwan and Japan are doing.  yep.
 @Parapon3ra  Oversocialized? We have a dictatorship that only claims to be communistic, and we have a hyper capitalist oligarchy on the other side. Both couldn't be farer from being oversocialized.You probably also believe that both both are perfect democracies... one ruled by a dictator, the other by Samsung...
​@Parapon3ra  lmao the problem in S. Korea is obviusly unfettered capitalism, installed by USA
@macaronisex I mean it could be, but you do realize there's a 99% chance you're reading a comment by an american who knows almost nothing about korean culture, doesn't speak the language and probably has almost no in depth knowledge of what oversocialization is.
They're not polar opposites; both of them are situations where a small, powerful group of people oppress and profit off of a large overworked, impoverished population. Obviously SK is way better but fundamentally they have the same problem (that's unfortunately also found in every other country on Earth)
It's like the worst of Communism and Capitalism. Wonder what two superpower nations played a part in this.
isnt it crazy to think that the korean peninusla is bigger than italy with po valley combined? is italy described as a tiny peninsula?
They're not that opposite, honestly. Both exploit their people, and both are basically ruled by aristocracy. One has a king, another has families of nobles.
​@ciaosonoAlbertoG  He meant opposite because one was communist and the other is hyper capitalist. Even though it's not even "communist" by definition, it does not mean communism was not a factor in North Korea's fall.
The whole history of the world lis dystopian.  There is no substitute for individuals asserting objective morality and autonomy all the time.  Freedom is the best way but individuals have to want it and do the work.
This video only emphasizes leftist propaganda in KR. Most of the past economical growth in KR, which has made it one of the richest countries in the world from ashes in a short amount of time, was also rooted from these family run companies.  Definitely not a perfect world, as any other country, but the system has been working quite well, especially compared to North Korea counterpart.
 @rosinantequila  Why don't YOU do a little work, and tell us what you think oversocialized means? Or has the tequila rendered you incapable of that?
They're not opposites at all. One is classic socialism, and one is corporate socialism. The only difference is the second one has a paper thin veneer of separation between the ruling party and the economy.
 @nathanlong8295 at what point does a country start taking care of itself? Lol you can’t blame every failure in the future on the past
 @rosinantequila  IDK, maybe because they do not socialize too much, obviously? Everyone looking at their phones, students focused only on studying, workers overworked to the extent the only socialization they get might be the friday night drinking with 'friends'. I do not see a prospering community-building in Korea, not sure what do you think.
 @Infinitebruhmoment69420   Corporatism is not unfettered capitalism. This was designed and supported by the government
Typical common sense low intelligent comment. North Korea is not a dystopia.
 @rohithkumarbandari  extreme communism would be Red Khmer Rouge, though. Ya, know, the genocidal regime sponsored by US and inspired by 1984.Thankfully communistic Vietnam dealt with that menace created by capitalists and one day North Korea will deal with the declining dystopia of South Korea..
​ @Grothgerek Claims to be communistic? So the people of North Korea are free to own property and operate businesses as they see fit?
 @CentaurisNomadus that are two different things to socialize with other ppl and have a hard social system. Social pressure, social hierarchy etc. Ppl will fake to work after they are fired get in debt and commit suicide. Before confronting the social pressures from their families.
Their problems are of the same origin, not polar opposites. Anti capitalist oligarchy where the government uses its powers to keep the rich away from pressures of capitalism in South Korea and pure communism in the North.
​ @Infinitebruhmoment69420 What unfettered capitalism? South Korea's major problems are exclusively caused by anti capitalist government enforced oligarchy where the rich are kept rich not by capitalism but the government. It is  VERY far removed from capitalism. North Korea on the other hand has no concept of private property at all, even down to possessions. It's further left than imagined by Marx.
 @DrakesdenChannel  The existence or nonexistence of something isn't prove that it has to be what you want it to be.  "nor shall any state... deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws" It seems the USA is also a communistic country, because they demand equal rights for their people in their constitution.  Fascist germany also limited ownership and operation of business, and they were the total opposite of communism.
 @Grothgerek  Fascism is not opposite to communism whatsoever, it is a sister ideology with an origin in Marxist thought. Don't forget Hitler was a communist in 1919, as was Mussolini prior.
 @DrakesdenChannel  you have truly said nothing of meaning. mussolini being a communist prior to being a fascist says absolutely nothing about either. the only similarities between the two ideologies is the populist aspect, which fascism targets towards minorities such as jews, and which communism/socialism (rightfully) attributes towards capitalists. this and also influence from hegelian philosophy which manifests in totally different forms, and is basically superficial when it comes to fascism
@lolidkstudio  Fascism abhors capitalism, individualism and is comprised of total economic centralization and collectivism. It is an ideology that is borne from valuing the collectivist core of communism and detesting communism on the belief of subversion, not structure. Sister ideologies.
Except one is not a dystopia.  It just has issues like every nation.
@aguyfromnothere  Yeah I know the problems of the DPRK are often exaggerated
@SD-ur2up  it says something about the successive intervention and the appalling amount of genocides the peninsula went through
 @MomsLittleJedi  ok, well that is why North and South Korea exist.
It's literally something you'd hear about from an old fairy tale.
 @bijanadhikari7928  north korea is market socialism. the "worst of communism" is just red capitalism.
It's your fault for delusionally believing that there's such a thing as utopia.
this was my originally stolen comment on RealLifeLore's video that everyone copies on every South Korea = dystopia video LOL. I originally stole it in from the CaspianReport video original comment.
​ @ZXCRacing what he wants to convey is, the content made by Fern is comparable, or even better compared to the content in premium youtube.. And I totally agree with that statement..
I get what you are saying, but get outside feel the grass, Youtube isn't the real life, getting emotional over someone uploading a video on YT is kinda sad! Wish you well
Google RN: "He can't do that?! Someone demonize him or something!"
​ @zenmoto369 Don't tell this person to touch grass when your content is low effort.
 @zenmoto369 Telling him to go outside & feel the grass as you yourself are on YouTube watching videos & typing comments is crazy work
 @TheRoninChannel  acting like premium actually gives you different content besides youtube originals, which arent anything special, is silly.. revanced or your basic ad blocker does the same thing.
 @snarevox  I finally had to bite on that recently lol the ads around these EOY holidays are absolutely nuts. I understand why that it is & it’s been that way forever, but I swear this year it was like 2 midrolls every <5 minutes regardless of the channel
I think he’s meaning there’s no ads enabled on these videos as there’s already ads within the video by sponsorship   Few people don’t double dip with ad money and I respect it
Also makes the videos more accessible as many people click off with ads when their attention isn’t immediate to justify wasting time watching mostly shit ads
 @TheRoninChannel  I have YouTube premium, I didn’t even know they had ‘premium’ content, where do I find it? 😂
 @TheRoninChannel there’s literally no difference between the two other then no ads🤡🤡🤦🏽‍♂️
And yet the GDP per capita by purchasing power AFTER taxes in 2024, *South Korea scored #4 in all of OECD countries at $55,000* according to "OECD Taxing Wages."   Last December, Japanese media was abuzz with alarm at how South Korea has surpassed Japan in GDP per capita, when it was expected to do that in 2027. (South Korea already exceeded Japan by purchasing power per capita in 2018)  Btw for taxing wages, America scored $50,000. The key was US having twice as much taxes. Germany scored $54,000, Japan scored $42,000  South Korea just has a different system than others, this video is driving a false narrative, a mountain of a molehill. It worked for the last few decades, like that doesn't account for anything?  Reminds of another ridiculous video how it claims the previous Samsung owner's death was some secret and said Samsung was run by a zombie, but in reality EVERYONE in South Korea knew he was dead.  Lee Kwan Yew ran a very unique system in Singapore and it has prospered immensely under his iron fist. What's the problem? It worked.
 @TheRoninChannel  Aren't we all allowed to view the same content rather premium or not?  I don't get it...
Facts... But grab u a modded YT apk and be free n clear of ads 💯
... Learned all of this while watching on a Samsung Galaxy flip phone 😮
Plot twist: You're part of the team and you made those water animations.
Pull your tongue back to your mouth. It's not really that impressive. In fact, the it's too sharp looking when the water hits on the side of the ship.
i feel like on thing i didnt like was the depiction of the people on the sewol ferry. They weren't mainly little children they were high schoolers on their field trip iirc.
 @Su_TwT idk man - teenagers are just slightly more coherent children lol
 @Su_TwT  dude, they're Asian. To you they looks like little children but they're high schoolers.
@ why does them being Asian matter. Brother I’m Asian too 😭 The point I made was just it’s awkward depicting the kids on the ferry as children with their parents when it was high schoolers with their teachers.
Plot twist: The animations were made by graphic designers from India.
 @hookback  do you think you could make this in one week.
This is why I only purchase Apple devices and not Samsung
As if nearly 500 adult people dying would be any less of a tragedy 🤦
Plot twist: You made the animation and commented on it purposefully.
 @hookback  Some people are capable of making it by themselves if the assets were pre-made via cinema4d blender or whatever these people/person use
What I am seeing is a briefing in hitman. Good Morning 47 your target is the"insert nickname" better known as "insert name", she's a daughter of the CEO of the "insert name" known as "insert name".
they supported by our gov they got good money to pay for those animation
Pretty sure its all AI. No skill involved lol you just have to type in prompts for the AI to make your videos
​ @hookback water is the most difficult to replicate in art, followed by human faces and ears.
I am actually interested in the 3d workflow they use to produce such bulk animations so quickly ... is there a service that has all these characters pre-rigged to animate? I am from the old school where you would have to buy assets from some pricey service (turbosquid) or cobble together free models from dodgy sources and waste time cleaning. But I am always seeing these long form videos with quick 3d animations.  Any suggestions?
​ @SherridonRoutley  I would bet good money that this is all AI. Sooo...pay for a service, get good at writing prompts (or have a different app write a prompt for you) and you're off to the races with very little effort compared to traditional 3D animation
 @hookback  "Pull your tongue back to your mouth" you are NOT a Elden ring boss lil bro 😭🙏
​ @JudgmentalDude you do realize that this channel is probably run by more than one person?
Wasn't there a presidential pardon for the president's son in America recently?
It's when a person is so valuable that those with influence or the population chooses to ignore their actions.
Above the law : Samsung CEO going to jail for 3 years before😅
I can’t imagine why it’s so hard to have that power and be decent. Why can’t you be the #1 company in a country and just make sure your ships are safe?
They have contributed and controlled so much to economic growth and people's daily lives, that it's impossible not to be above the law
 @zenmoto369   You are not that guy pal... you are not that guy.
Just be "happy" they aren't above the other laws of nature.  They still follow the laws of...  - Thermodynamics - Gravity - Kinetics - Buoyancy - Decay  etc.  They can't escape the fact those laws will in one way or another make them a thing of the past. When someone is particularly bad, they usually get a push towards that end by a revolutionary person/group/nation.
You wonder how it gets to that point for a country..
​ @CocolinoFan That's literally no contest compared to the amount of pardons made by Orange man
this video is extremely misleading, they literally get arrested and serve years of sentences,, they are NOT above the law wtf?
Cambodia Khmer rouge leader are all above the law even now Hun Sen who was once a Khmer rouge leader himself still ruled Cambodia with his son as his successor, all of that is possible because Vietnam is behind him and China fund him financially.   But no one seems to care, you would be disgusted to know what he had done to Cambodian but we were afraid of Vietnam spy, they are now everywhere in Cambodia.  Most scary things is not Vietnam spy, it is the Chinese mafia, thought.
@ I know it’s illegal, but do you think it is easy for citizens to buy guns in Cambodia?
You might even say you  "Love the city you live in" perhaps?
just try to be a diplomat then. I am sure you will like it
​ @황성연-m5n  didn't he only serve 1 year before he was pardoned. Crazy.
​@CocolinoFan  against recent IRS charges... but then went back 14 years for anything not previously disclosed. Nothing to see there, move along please
 @DuolingoOFFICIAL-english  Oh look, another armchair genius. Kindly elaborate why it has nothing to do with capitalism?
Everyone can... how do you think we all know it when we see it!
 @justmytwocentsdontgetmad  “kindly elaborate”  You should do the same. Why you so smug?  Capitalism is an economic system. It doesnt put anyone above the law. If some is “above the law”, that is a failure of government, not capitalism.  You never took a political science class did you?
It exists in the USA, Israel and the UK, amongst others
As you are not a sociopath, ofc being a kind hearted God fearing person, you can’t imagine behaving like a demon❤
Just see any judicial person in u.s.a. from cops to the president
 @CocolinoFan   the future re-elect president trump also pardoned many in his time, so yeah above the law
at a certain threshold of wealth and influence, people are above the "idea" of the law. Saint Luigi of New York showed us that if the system can not be changed, its us to make it change
 @CocolinoFan  Yeah, and also pardons for a president-elect convicted of multiple felonies. America is doomed.
 @CocolinoFan  Acting like that is somehow special while electing a guy who used getting elected to get out of multiple far more important cases against himself is pretty remarkable.  That's throwing stones while ignoring the mountain you're standing next to.
Bruh anyone who can pay a good lawyer is basically 'above the law'. If the law were fair, why on earth would there be lawyers?
 @CocolinoFan it’s not like trump also pardoned his criminal friends too right?? oh wait, he did 😂😂. they’re all bad
 @slide6314  Wrong, there is something more powerful than money and that is belonging in a society where they fear you, If they fear you, you have the power overall even the law. Knowing stuff about others and using that to your advantage is the main goal here.
 @Nasdy-h7l  That's a valid point which I agree with but we can't lie that their money is also a huge factor that contributes to that fear
maybe if you would contribute something to society in that dimension you could
Lee Jae Myung in Korea is above the law now. I can't imaging having that much power.
We must keep an eye on those who benefited from the Sewol Ferry incident. The truth is far and yet so close.
​ @CocolinoFan yes and it is just totally insane that that was allowed to happen and accepted by the citizens here
​ @CocolinoFan  So Pardoning a Junkie is a crime, but pardoning Litteral War Criminals with a record of Psychotic behaviour isn't?
@TTPronaldo ok no worries, write in english tho if you want to be understood, khunt!
Try 1950s for North Korea. They wish they had cassette players and roller blades lol  Edit: I just got the George Orwell reference I’m stupid lol
@ yea I know I edited my comment once I realized lol
Except North Korea is a socialist nightmare, and the vast majority of people in South Korea live very nice lives
Although can anyone explain me how these are the families that "controls" S.Korea. Because what I learned from this video is that they all faced consequences and went to jail? lmao.
​ @bronson4574 "Ver nice" would not be right. Lower middle class rather than poor more likely.
it's not very comparable at all with the cyberpunk world except for corporate monopoly.
@HSS_yt  It's literally cyberpunk.  It's complete social decay and dystopia in a high-technology world.
​ @sdxw2cs that's the thing. actually corrupt nations won't ever investigate themselves. Unironically this does mean that democracy is alive in korea and it has the potential to improve.
the most cyberpunky cities outside of seoul would have to be san francisco and la, there's futuristic technology literally rolling past giant homeless encampments
​ @GoodBaleadaMusic that's an easy thing to say. but please look at details. can you elaborate with what you mean by social decay? The entire developed world is living in a high-technology world. there isn't anything super special about south korean technology. it's actually quite far from cyberpunk, there's working healthcare, there's very low crime and et cetera. a "cyberpunk dystopia" is a title that belongs to what the entire game was based around of, the US. there are much bigger companies all stronger both socially and politically there.
 @GoodBaleadaMusic  No, it's not cyberpunk. I have lived in South Korea for a long time. Westerners exaggerate the HELL out of South Korea's ailments and problems, and I personally like to say that most Westerners have a meme-level understanding of South Korea (and other countries like Japan). I like Fern, but he fell into the same trap as other YouTubers when talking about South Korea by overrelying on unreliable information.
 @sdxw2cs they can simply bail out by their wealth and political connections.
As a Korean living in the US, feels like this  US: Bioshock 1
 @HSS_yt  The comparison is apt, the USA and South Korea actually have a great deal in common. It is not an accident. Which nation was it that had the greatest influence over the development of South Korea after the war? Both countries are democratic late stage capitalist societies that suffer from corporate overstep and corruption.   The primary differences are cultural rather than our societal setups and failings which share many similarities. The world as a whole is seeing the rise of a new era where massive international corporate entities wield the sort of power nations traditionally did but without borders doing as much to contain them.
 @bronson4574 ”nice lives” if you are one of the elite. Profit over safety
I remember someone once said North Korea is like the worse aspects of communism while South Korea is like the worse aspects of capitalism
And i bet bunch of these people havent stepped a foot in korea
The Korean Peninsula makes me glad Chinese and American living conditions and what not
 @megaham1552  “I remember someone said something stupid the DPRK one time” so it’s gotta be true.
@ Braindead. The DPRK is exponentially more free and dignified than South Korea.
​ @sdxw2cs They didn't go to jail, they got pardoned or served extremely shortened sentences. Their companies also control a majority of South Korea's economy, making them essentially immune because if they do bad, then the whole country does badly
Except Korea is one of the safest countries in the world with extremely low crime rates
 @sdxw2cs  They didn't go to actual prisons and mingle with prisoners.. They faced detentions, house arrests and suspensions. It was no worse than staying at home during quarantine.
​ @HSS_yt the only thing left for South Korea to be like cyberpunk it's for Samsung to have private army
I find it weird that a video on South Korea has so many mentions of North Korea out of nowhere.
Americana living in idocracy dystopian and literally in Gotham city saying this to Korea is funny
North Korea: 1984 South Korea: Cyberpunk 2077 USA: 2001: A Space Odyssey
This video is exaggerating generic flaws of capitalism that appears in ANY COUNTRY. Lately I see many videos like this, especially with Korea, maybe because it gets lots of views  To counter the video's argument, gini coefficient(income inequality) of Korea is lower than that of USA, Italy, Spain.  Wealth gap is so much worse in the USA, China, ... than in Korea.   Also, at least the illegal coalitions were investigated and punished in Korea. In 3rd world countries, it won't even be investigated or noticed lol.   Also, Any country is a dystopia when using such tragedies like this as a base of the claim. Example: terrorist attacks, pickpockets, r@pe in Europe gun violence, drug overdose, obesity in the USA and scandals like Jeffery Epstein  This video is exaggerating generic flaws of capitalism that appears in ANY COUNTRY.+ Any country has its flaws and can be portrayed as dystopia, except maybe swiss, denmark.
 @bronson4574  Yes they do, least they have food and water and a place to stay in South Korea, but... of course poverty and homelessness do exist and given the poor economic equality, though not in the level of North Korea, yeah, some would just simply say they are no better..
 @bronson4574  I don't think the vast majority of people in South Korea live very nice lives. Maybe the upper class and upper-middle class. The others literally struggle to make a living in a monopoly-oligarchic state. The housing debt issue in SK is crazy, too.
 @bronson4574  And to be fair, the North Korean situation isn't "all their fault". The US and the West simply refuse to bring free trade and capital investment to that part of the world, and they sanction any country who tries to do business with or invest in North Korea. North Korea isn't China. North Korea doesn't have the largest market and the largest educated workforce in the world. North Korea until recently didn't have nuclear weapons. It has very little  to offer to western capitalists, nor does it possess things that could be used as leverage in any form of negotiation with the US. The US doesn't even want to negotiate with NK. Keeping NK as a permanent threat is more in line with US strategic interests, since it provides a reason for continuous US military control of S. Korea and Japan. The fact that the Korean War could be reactivated is used as a threat to check the opponents and control the allies at the same time. There's a reason NK is made to be the designated villain, almost obsessed with, only in the West. The rest of the world is indifferent, to the extent there isn't gonna be a nuclear war in that region. To think in terms of geopolitical realism instead of ideological labels, NK doesn't have a choice, it is the way it is, a closed-off society, because of very real restraints it finds itself in. The same goes for South Korea too, it doesn't have that many choices either. They don't even command their own military should a state of war is declared, the US does.
​ @bronson4574  South Korea terrifies me.  The path to financial success is tight path, controlled by the Chaebol. If you want to be well off, you have to be with the chaebol
 @genericereal most westerners have never been to any of those East Asian countries especially in recent years.
​ @genericereal  To be frank, South Koreans have meme level understanding of westerners as well, evident by the portrayal of "VIPs" in Squid Game
 @bronson4574 very nice life, you mean not being able to afford health care, and having a rice famine in 2024? LMAO
 @sonneh86  This video isn't about how South Koreans perceive Westerners--I've had plenty of conversations with my Korean friends about East Asian misperceptions of Western societies and cultures.  Stick to the topic at hand instead of engaging in whataboutism.
South Korea: TNO Guangdong State (but mono-ethnic & sovereign state version)
 @SuperNormal_ParaNatural  uneducated, also DPRK missiles are one of the most modern in the world
Aight you can say this but I’d live in cyberpunk 100/100
If I had to choose, I would find it easier to live in North Korea.
 @bronson4574  yet the north has more than double the birth rate than the south, uhm..
​@fabianustertius6460  I'm not defending South Korea, but do not think for a second North Korea in any way better at all.
 @sdxw2cs  yeah, for like a week, and got pardoned immediately after
 @SeeJay804  oh god, don't tell me you, don't know what cyberpunk 2077 is 😮
worse, north korea is basically the middle ages with tech from the 60s
​@redhidinghood9337  probably a similar setup to Japan. not actually that safe, but seems that way because they only prosecute when they're sure they can convict. all without speaking of the length of prison time handed out (notoriously low, as in Japan) and the ease with which influential people get off easy for their crimes
 @bronson4574  if it wasnt us sanctions north korea would live nice too
@nddragoon Ignore that furry. It thinks showering is a hate crime.
 @stereomachine  That attitude is exactly what is making us incessantly follow every new and stupid trend just because some start calling everything older than a year or two a "tired" stuff. But maybe I took it too seriously, or I and you both did.
I recently played that game and thought "it's just korea with guns"
@ Wdym, South Korea had massive rice shortage this year, China saved its poor ass
1984 was inspired by the UK regime at the time, though. Orwell himself worked in pretty much the Ministry of Truth in real life, so it's more of capitalistic menace, not communistic one.
​ @megaham1552 They are wrong. North Korea is not even socialist let alone communist! it's more like a modern day monarchy (I'm talking about Juche ideology) and South Korea is not a exceptional capitalist country with insane framework, They are just another capitalist country and the reason they might look different and too dystopian is because of their specific history during cold war, in which S.K capitalist system was created in a specific socio-political environment, and it was easy to guess that where it gonna end up (massive inequality) like the rest of the world today. People like to say such superficial things about a complex country like Korea which experienced massive social changes during cold war, because it's kinda exciting and need no further analysis, but things are not that simple, (not that they are too complicated to understand) it's just not that simple. Real world problems requires realistic analysis not novel-based analysis. At the end Two Koreas are not exceptional or insane in terms of their socio-political system, (I find this view a little bit racist) anyway, they just shaped that way based on their specific material conditions in a very chaotic world.
​ @sdxw2cs  they control it cuz they got sentenced to jail and literally got out basically instantly. Have you even been watching the video?
@  And movies like "Parasites" and "Squid Game" take place in entirely fictional version of South Korea, right?
 @SuperNormal_ParaNatural  this was my originally stolen comment on RealLifeLore's video that everyone copies on every South Korea = dystopia video LOL. I originally stole it in from the CaspianReport video original comment.
 @MrBlipman   It's your fault for delusionally believing that there's such a thing as utopia.
 @piracyparty    I think this video is more about the content creator's European enviousness toward south korea's capability to thrive while technically being at war with its neighbor, that is based on the delusional George Orwell's political prejudice using the European sociopolitical prejudice.    Because the fact is that the Philippines' ruling class (that was also manufactured by the United States' government) including the Catholic Church...  is actually much more corrupt than the south korea's government.  And yet he's not calling the Philippines: "Philippines is a dystopia".   Most likely he's picturing south korea as a dystopia based on the delusional George Orwell's political prejudice, because he's frustrated of the fact that his country's cultural export doesn't thriving enough as much as the other countries'.   And his superficial analysis and neglecting the cause of the KCIA acts.
진짜 되게 당황스러움...어이도 없고ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 동정을 하고픈 건지.. 현실판 추리물을 찍고 싶은 건지..
사실상 한국은 여기서 유산세 하나 더넣으면 사유재산 압류수준임ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ 그리고 요즘 보면 재벌을 악랄하게 묘사하고 사회주의에 대해 토론하려는 사람들이 인터넷 상에 엄청 늘어나는데 의심안할래야 안할수가 없음. 그러면서 중국 공산당에 대해 악랄하게 묘사하는건 존나싫어함ㅋㅋㅋ
틀린말은 아니라고 생각함. 삼성이  gdp 20% 넘게 차지하고 국위선양한다는 이유로 온 국민이 삼성제품 사도록 은연중에 강요받고 이재용이 법 위에 있는건 맞잖아.
yo bros read this comments, this is what real koreans think about this video.
한국 분석하는 외국인들 보면 참ㅋㅋㅋ 한국을 잘 모른다 싶음 코로나 마스크 분석이나 저출산 분석같은거 보면ㅋㅋ..
​ @lalylol6437  Some koreans, there's a huge divide in korean people when it comes to politics. There's still a big part of extreme right wingers that think is ok to have chaebols because "at least Is not socialism"
타인이 보기엔 일련의 사건이 분명히 디스토피아처럼 보일 수 있다는 건 생각해볼만한 거리임... 위 댓 중에서 써 있듯, "적어도 사회주의는 아니기 때문에" 괜찮다라고 여겨 실제 발생한 문제를 방기하는 일은 있어서는 안되기 때문에. 그게 분명 장기적 관점에서 사회와 경제 발전에 큰 저해를 줄 것임을 분명히 인지해야 함.
ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ하정아 대체 누가 삼성제품을 강요하냐 학교만 가도 삼성폰쓰면 아재란 소리듣는데 젊은층 아이폰이나 아이패드 맥북쓰고싶어하는데 뭔 ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ
법대로 했으면 이재용이 삼성 주인이 아니니까 삼바 에버랜드 사건들이 있는거지;; 상속세 있으면 뭐함 지키질 않는데
그래놓고 법인세 올리면 기업 망한다 ㅠㅠ 상속세 너무 높다 ㅜㅠ 최저임금 이렇게 높히면 나라 망하는 거 아니냐 ㅠㅜ 이지랄 ㅋㅋ
​ @alejandrovallejo6763  문제는 그 재벌이 실질적으로 한국 경제의 뿌리를 담당하고 있다는것이고 미국처럼 반트러스트법이 없다는건 아쉬운것
미국인들에 빨간약 까면 어떻게댈까? ㅋㅋㅋㅋ총기 마약? 노숙자? 빈부격차? 산불나면 나타나는 강도들? 생각나는것만으로도 수십개가 넘어 근데 제대로 알고 까자 ㅋ
한국 상황은 여기 영상에 나온 그대로다. 니네가 둔감한거지. 삼성이 언론에 끼치는 힘도 엄청 커서 잘 못느낄수도 있긴 한데 우리 한국 발전을 막는 가장 큰 요소가 이 재벌구조임. 삼성가 가계도한번 보면 확 느껴질꺼다.  상속세 높다고 하지만 각종 편법으로 상속세 다 피한다. 그리고 우리나라 재벌들이 지 자식들한테 주식 물려줄때 상속세 조금 내려고 주가도 안높인다. 오히려 주가를 하락시킬려고 한다. 그래서 '코리아 디스카운트' 라고 하는 우리나라 주식 저평가 현상이 발생하는거고 주가 낮추려고 쪼개기 상장으로 주주들에게 엄청난 피해를 주고, 그리고 자기 자식에게 회사를 물려주는거도 한국의 특이한 문화다. 당연하다고 생각하는 사람 많은데, 외국의 경우에는 자기자식한테 이런 주식회사 물려주는 사람 많이 없다. 그리고 한국만큼 회장이 CEO 까지 같이하는 경우가 많은 나라가 없다. 그냥 지꺼라고 생각하는거지. 삼성이 이재용꺼냐? 우리 주주꺼다. 이런식으로 아들,딸,사위,며느리한테 회사 다 물려주고 경영도 지들이하면 이게 옛날 봉건제랑 구조적으로 크게 다른게 뭐임? 그냥 생산 수단만 농지에서 회사로 바뀐거지. 우리가 계속 이런식으로 살면, 옛날 소작농,노비들하고 다를게 없다 이거야. 이렇게나 우리나라를 좀먹고 있는데 아직도 보면 이재용 찬양하고 이재용 없으면 우리나라 망하는줄 알고 이재용이 삼성 주인인줄 아는 노예마인드 많더라 ㅋㅋ. 근데 이거도 다 삼성 언론조작 때문인거 알아서 그냥 불쌍하다. 문화일보,매일경제,한국경제는 삼성이랑 유착되있는거 이미 너무 유명해서 다 알꺼고. 한겨래,경향신문,SBS,YTN,연합뉴스 다 삼성이랑 크게 유착되있다. 못믿겠으면 장충기 문자청탁사건 찾아봐라. 사실 언론은 사익집답, 그냥 일반적인 회사이기에 광고주(삼성) 한테 잘해줄 수 밖에 없지. 이런 구조를 잘 이해하고 뉴스도 걸러볼줄 알아야된다.
여기 댓글 쓰는 사람들 걍 한국 까내리려고 혈안 되어있는 사람 대거 몰려온듯요.. ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 어느 나라든 안 좋은 부분 있고 한국도 비판할 부분이 많지만, 경제규모 있고 힘들게 민주주의를 얻은 나라인데... 그건 생각 안하고 지맘대로 상상해서 소설 써놓고 이 영상 본 사람은 그걸 또 좋다고 다 사실이라고 믿는중....ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ 한국 안티 많다더니 진짜 그렇네요...ㅋㅋㅋ 한국인으로서는 어이없어서 웃을뿐ㅋㅋㅋㅋ
지들이 당하고 있다고 외국에서 알려주는데 노예들이 직접 나서서 아닌데 아닌데?? 시전중ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ노예근성 어디 안가쥬?ㅋㅋㅋ
법 위에 정치가 군림한다고 했으면 백번 천번 공감했을듯ㅋㅋㅋ 좌우 안가리고 지들이 법보다 위인데
Is that why a man who was accused of corruption was only in jail for one year?
요즘 이런유튜브 많더라... 제대로된 얘기하는척 갑자기 음모론으로 틀어서 재벌 어쩌구저쩌구 한국은 재벌이 지배하는 사이버펑크고 어쩌구....
 @Uqpfnaxa  Insurance company bosses in countries like the U.S., who were responsible for the deaths of thousands or even tens of thousands of people, enjoyed their power as a matter of course until the citizens took up arms. In light of this, I think it's wrong to call South Korea a dystopian society in this video. If you're right, then every country in the world is dystopian.
 @신하정-t3l  gdp는 매출하고 아무 상관 없음 너네 같은 저학력자는 이해하기 힘들거다
진짜 어이없긴 하네요;;;; 아니 솔직히 우리나라가 잘못된 부분은 많지만... 그 잘못된부분을 완전히 자기들이 창작해서 만드는건 좀....
Aren't lifeboats fully enclosed these days so they can't sink even in the roughest weather?
 @ConfirmedCynic such lifeboat is expensive, Most of ship’s lifeboat are still the typical inflatable one.
"the crew will always tell you to remain in place" so we're just going to let this slide and continue? Objectively, is that the right protocol to be carried out in times of crisis?
 @thegreatimu  i guess thats just to reduce chaos in the cabin, since crowd running around would cause injuries
Addition to this, always make yourself aware of the immersion suit location and put it on once so you understand in a panic.
lmao he was lying to you, or you're lying for internet clout.  none of this is true.
( I'm not offended to anyone. I just want to tell the truth )  Also, I'm not saying thoses issues are right or okay. You can say those were really awful, bad and so on. But you cannot call out korea as dystopia country because of that.  There are too many fake news and false between Sewol accident and Korean president'  Maybe you can call south Korea Dystopia because of PRESIDENT MOON Jae-in and other chinese&north Korean SPYs who stays in south korea.  Executives of the Korean Confederation of 'Labor', He is in prison for ESPIONAGE. (being spy)  President MOON! worte "THANK YOU" to Sewol ferry accident fatalities. President MOON! gave 'confidential information USB' to Kim JUNG-UN who is North Korea dictator.  Morevoer president MOON! tired to eliminate word "LIBERAL" form the Constitutional Sentence. " South Korea is a Liberal Democratic country."   Now the most important thg is that China! and North Korea! and Communists try to destroy Liberal Democratic South Korea. They are already destroying South kroea's governmaent systems. In a Citizens' life , Why the fuk did the CHINIESE come out for KOREA POLITICAL protest!? CHINESE PEOPLE(spy) go to your china and do prostest at TIANANMEN Square.
 @thegreatimu  I think he's implying it's the right thing to do in a orthodox situation but the crew will always prioritize themselves and keep the passengers ignorant until it's too late. If the crew is telling you to stay put, they're also not going to be around to tell you where the life boats are.
​ @thegreatimu you and you alone is responsible for your life and your close family. Allways and everywhere. RESPONSABILITY is something nowadays parents and all other peoples do not know, reckognise, and taken up as something they ought to, are obliged to, have to implement in their daily routine. It means simply said: every person AND kid has to learn to watch every situation it is in for possible dangerous situations for self, but ALSO for others! Because we are not alone in this world. We also have to take care ookf the safety for other people. Easy said, more easy done when it becomes a habit. Noone knows this by birth, everyone has to learn the basics of life. That is the great responsability every parent should teach, but which many parents avoid.
Everything you said is circumstantial. Also, don’t go onto the leaning side of a ship as it’s likely you’ll fall into the water if it falls past 45 degrees.
Thank you, ships will now tilt even faster due to the unbalanced weight distribution of the newly informed passangers.
That story at the beginning sounds like a black mirror episode
The reason is quite simple: sailors are good for driving ships. They are no teachers. They can’t handle crowds of panicking passengers
Hmm … consider me skeptical. Just got back from a cruise and the FIRST thing the crew did was a mandatory, all-hands emergency drill, where every passenger fetched their life vests (from their cabins), met on the central deck, and put the vests on. Furthermore, the lifeboats accommodated more than twice the ship’s capacity. And two of those lifeboats were the fully enclosed kind (like in  the movie “Captain Phillips”). I agree with the premise of trust your gut if you feel unsafe—head to the upper decks. But it must be a shady ship operator if being lied to and abandoned by the crew is a concern. Perhaps it’s once again a case of “you get what you pay for?”
NO , you go to the opposite side to the tilt , if you don’t you will get trapped and drown
In the unlikely event that i do get on a boat, I'll remember this advice.  Thanks man 🤜🤛
 @jyyyb  is it your hypothesis, or do you have anything to back it up?
@ watch the clip of HMS Hood sinking the only ones who survived were on the side not entering the water , ( I think it’s hms hood , it’s the sinking of of a Second World War British battleship)
People on the Costa Concordia survived by sitting on the far side of the ship, further away from the water. The ship never overturned and they were safe.
Passengers on Costa Concordia survived by sitting on the side further away from the water.  Not being stuck alone in your cabin sounds reasonable though.
 @thegreatimu  It's complicated.  Having a panicked mob running around IS dangerous, and will likely impede any efforts the crew might be making toward saving you.  That said, yeah, it could easily be too late.  It's one of those things where yeah, they're gonna say it, but you have to kind of make your own call on how to proceed.
Obviously, there is a spectrum. Good ships and crews will act accordingly. It's a myth that people always panic in a crisis, but it is universally believed. Apparently believed by your sailor friend, and probably other crew. Still, passengers usually don't know what to do! He was right that if the ship is listing the up-side boats are useless as the davits could be fouled and not able to lower boats. Rescue/emergency lifeboats are usually enclosed and will automatically roll "true" when capsised but rolling down the hull won't be any good for them! Of course if the ships capsises then those on the lower side are in real trouble if they are still aboard. People could sit on the upward hull of the Costa Concordia because it was on the bottom. It would not roll or sink any further, although they probably wouldn't know this.  Compare with the sinking of MV Queen of the North when it ran aground in 2006 in the middle of the night due to crew incompentence. Passengers were immediately instructed to proceed to muster stations but many went to the wrong deck (7 instead of 8) and did not take their lifejackets from their cabins. Crew repeatedly checked crew and passenger deck cabins to ensure they were cleared, but formal procedures were not followed (no chalk marks, organised plan, etc.) The Captain personally conducted the final cabin check. He and the crew boarded the last lifeboat when the evacuation was sounded as it was determined rescue would not arrive in time. Despite some confusion (there was no proper head count when passengers were mustered) 99 of 101 passengers were rescued (by a fleet of local Native fishermen from Hartley Bay First Nation). It is unclear what happened to the 2 that were lost.
 @ConfirmedCynic  I've seen reports of fully enclosed lifeboats jettisoned from the side away from the list and getting completely smashed to peices or badly holed. It's better than nothing if the list develops so quickly the other side's boats can't be launched but it's not good.
Me getting court marshaled because the captain told me to drown
 @susivarga7303 it never overturned because it's in shallow water and has no space for it to roll. It basically landed on it's side like a stranded whale on a shore.
The german Car Industry holds a combined share of 4,5% in comparison and they still are massively powerful. Just imagine what power a 60% share gives you.
I met the CEO of Samsung. He came into where I worked, surrounded by a huge group of black suits.
also about 10% of south korean populace basically lives in slavery.
And in the US we have Blackrock, Vanguard, and State Street that not only contribute to, but own more than 60% of the US.
Funnier fact that’s the fact in Sweden which just 1 family that controls Saab, Ericsson, ABB, Atlas Copco, Assa Abloy, Astra Zeneca, Volvo trucks and a few others ..
 @BoxheadHakx that’s not accurate they don’t own or controll 60% of us companies but they have a stake in 60% of the largest companies in the western world at least.
 @Bartnuschler  but german economy size is so big. 4.5% is huge for that
 @nato838  hahaha that's what I'm sayin, they literally said that in the video.
GO check out Saudi arabia, and any arab country, then come back to me with your stats
What if chaebols were required to mirror a democratic govt (legislative board with multiple corporate goal parties elected by shareholders [including citizens if that big] to make bylaws, executive board to make policy, c-suite to carry out policy, and judicial board to check that bylaws and policies conform to the charter and bylaws of the company as well as to the national law?
People talk about Japan and America going too far with capitalism, but South Korea is already a cyberpunk reality.
Why don't youtubers view the problems in Taiwan where TSMC accounts for 40% of entire gdp, their income as half as korean companies?
 @AeSyrNation  these are public statistics released by south korea’s own govement😂
Fun fact - this statement is extremely misleading. I bet many people here think that literally means top 10 groups control 60% of the economy. Not at all. GDP and economy are not the same thing. Not every company sells final goods or services. Korea's top 1,000 companies' total revenue is 1.7 times the country's total GDP. There are 10's of thousands of more companies in Korea. Also it's worth noting that top 1% of all companies account for more than 80% of all corporate tax revenue.
no they don't, that's the ratio of their assets to the GDP. don't spread misinformation.
That's really scary, like these corporations are practically running the country..
​ @황성연-m5n 1 TSMC is 25% of Taiwan's gdp, which is still massive, but not 40%. 2 TSMC is not family owned, the Taiwanese govt itself owns 6.4% of the company. However, for example, the Samsung board chairman and CEO has always been a member of the lee family, which is textbook nepotism.
Yeah, that's crazy. Even Japan's biggest company, Toyota, only accounts for about 3% of Japan's total GDP.
 @팀보  exactly, according to OECD the grand total of Korean Companies contribution to nation's GDP is only 20% nowhere near 60
So what? That doesn't mean they should be above the law or punishment. If that has been my child and I only had one... 💀
Yes, and what is your point? Korea doesn't have oil, resources or endless farm land like the USA has. It is a tiny peninsula What do you suggest they do instead to make as much money as Samsung is making for their country?
Stop demonizing businesses, these companies are nothing without the millions of workers, and the millions of workers are nothing without these companies
​ @BoxheadHakx you have no idea how insanely big the a 30T economy is. And a country with 3 time zones
And Samsung is also a full on weapons manufacturer like Boeing and Lockheed Martin.
 @BodywiseMustard  AND ? What is your point We all know they need bodyguards and assistents . All Presidents also have workers around them . We see the black man in suits in all the kdramas . Marc Zuckerberg has a whole building for staff to manage his house . He doesn't have just one cleaning lady . you are making a comment with zero value . You could have at least add if he was nice etc . Everybody knows they don't travel alone
If any one of those conglomerates goes bankrupt their economy is fucked
It doesn’t affect every day life of South Korea. In fact the GDP per capita is not that bad and economy is not that bad people like to exaggerate the fuck out of things.
It doesn’t affect every day life of South Korea. In fact the GDP per capita is not that bad and economy is not that bad people like to exaggerate the fuck out of things.
corporate monopolization is the worst in the US, so is practical wealth inequality. i bet most of you are from the states, you guys need to look inward before pointing fingers.
 @BLACKAAROW  and which government bailed out their entire bank and auto industry because of those very same fears?
these videos about korean dystopia have been gaining traction among youtube content creators because they crave views, even when they have to distort the truth. look at this thread here, people are explaining why OP is a false statement and yet people just ignore the ones explaining the truth. korea enjoyed an unprecedented moment of visibility, it's workings are nowhere near as dystopian as the US yet some people feel the need to knock korea down.
the US has for-profit hospitals, for-profit prisons, all their big industries are owned by the same 2 companies in turn owned by the same hedge funds. companies are turning to AI to set prices for labor (making tax drivers and nurses bid for the lowest wages, it's a race of desperation to the bottom) and you guys want to say little old korea is dystopian???
​ @AeSyrNation  what did he/she say that might get him/her in court?
 @DrakonPhD Lmao you're lost. Blackrock by itself has over $10 trillion in assets. That's 40% of US GDP. You guys are so lost and blind thinking US is any different, it's insane.
 @AeSyrNation yes countries usually keep track of the source of the money going into the public treasury. It is the same with sources of income of people counted in the GDP. You can just do it with statistics, no court will deny sensical math.
They dknt contrinute to gdp themselves. Theres a huge working class thats also relevant, or do they not employ people?
 @kingace6186  America literally accounts for like 30% of global consumer spending. No way you're talking about Korea lol. America is literally the country that invented credit cards allowing people to spend money they don't have so corporations could profit.
 @황성연-m5n it’s just like how everyone is talking about Palestine-Israel or Ukraine-Russia. There are other countries with war also but got less attention.
 @GMPranav  Same thing in the US. They’re all connected. It’s literally insane
​ @BoxheadHakx eh not really. The biggest contributor to Americas health is something like Walmart with 2.5% of the gdp. America is much slower to a governmental dystopia than a corporate one like South Korea.
상식적으로 말이 된다고 생각하냐? 2023 삼성 영업이익이 고작 6조5400억 원인데 2023 한국 gdp는  2,243조 원임 언제까지 한국 드라마보고 재벌 경영을 생각하는건지. 상속세 소득세 50%떼고 재벌 다 청문회랑 감옥보내서 팔다리 자른 나라가 한국임.
Comments full of exaggerated and outdated stereotypes from people who have never lived in S. Korea. South Korea is not perfect like any other country, but this video is very narrow-minded and problematic. I am very curious about Fern's intentions in making this very biased video. If you are someone like me who has lived in Europe, North America, Oceania, Korea, and Japan, you will be very puzzled by this video and comments.
@BoxheadHakx no, those hedge funds are world wide big bosses. They;own a percentage of all publicly traded firms.
"Gotta protect the Grass!"-The concrete Wall at the end of the Runway (im sorry)
Some survived the crash. 4? Imagine you survive because several bodies before your position slow down your trauma
terrible infrastructure with the raised wall on the end of the runway. what were they thinking. would not have passed FAA standards
what is going on in korea these days. they're in the news for everything these days
and RIP to the captain, first officer and flight crew who behaved admirably in their last few moments in an effort to save lives.
 @koraegi are you silly? they’re paying respects to those who passed in Korea, this video is about Korea also
 @koraegi  probably has something to do with boeing and them being completely corrupt and cutting corners. But korea & korea related.
 @HotMudrs  @CrocodileWhispers There was a road behind the runway, the grass extended beyond it for a good 1000 ft and passed FAA standards, the plane was going way too fast it probably wouldnt have made a difference or if it did, would have caused significant damage elsewhere
 @HotMudrs this sounds like one of them cosmic messages from the universe  I wonder what it has to say to us
 @koraegi it has a lot to do with conglomerates. Businesses try their best possible way to get profits even if it means endangering the lives of everyone else. And to add to that the airport still hasn’t admitted that the concrete wall that cause the crash is the main reason. Their media are blaming the airplane even though the pilot managed to land it and they would’ve survived if there were no walls there.
​ @TakashiTaiki  it's actually a big topic here in korea- it's said that the official who ordered the concrete wall to be built (against many disagreement) was "appointed" there by the past president aka a "nepo". Hence why he was so incompetant at the job..
 @koraegi  you think jeju is a small business owned by a korean grandmother?
What's crazy is they are saying the cause of Plane crash was a bird.
 @sweetaznspice1  Hi I'm Korean and more things are still surfacing, but it's known that the Democratic Party was seriously involved in the incident.  From the unnatural clearance to build an airport AT a rare flocking birds swamp (probably affected the birdstrike- there are a lot of birds in area), to the sudden promotion of the airport into an official international line, and then the concrete wall which was said to be confirmed by that nepo official...
 @aceidel  a barely used road and once it hit grass it would have slowed significantly only reason the plane fell to pieces was because it hit a reinforced concrete structure right after the end of the runway stopping it near instantly
RIP to all the victims and hopefully some peace comes to their families as well.  Muan Airport knew and was advised that there shouldn't be a concrete structure at the end of the runway. What an absolutely preventable disaster.
 @Drawperfectcircles  It's not only the concrete wall. There are rumors that the maintainance time has been limited to the minimum of 28 mins, which is unrealistical to make a normal airplane check. In the name of making more flights per day...
serious question, why the pilot did not try to land on water (the sea near the airport)?
​@TakashiTaiki  you should so am I for laughing at this
외국에도 아시는 분이 있었군요... 정부에서도 애도기간을 지정할 만큼 끔찍한 참사였습니다. 삼가 고인의 명복을 빕니다
 @yeetboi268 - No, It happens in the U.S. as well. The time you are sentenced to does not equal the time you will actually serve. If you are sentenced to 10 years you can be out in five to six years. In most cases you only have to serve 80% your actual sentence to then be eligible for parole.
 @ravenzyblack  so? 80% beats SK and others. Name a country stricter than the US?
 @SCP-Canadian-Branch  Name a country stricter than the US and provide prove? You can't, because there aren't any.
 @yeetboi268 stricter than the US in terms of what? Countries like singapore, north korea, saudi and others have stricter laws compared to the US. Ppl literally walk around slinging their guns over in the US
 @yeetboi268 as a US citizen I wish this was true, but unfortunately it definitely isn’t.
And yet let me remind you our incarceration rate is 541 per 100,000 people with 1.8 million people behind bars.
 @yeetboi268  it does because you have to realize if prisons didnt do this they will be overfilled with people. And also according to the most out spoken people of US aka Liberals. Prisons are for rehabilitation not a punishment and they arent meant to keep you forever. So by US and Liberals logic they should be ok with this the guy was rehab and able to leave early.
 @yeetboi268  You are not born yesterday, rich people write the law in the US. If you have money and lawyer, you can get away with violation of the law than an average people comit the same crime. Its in the US, may not be as bad as S. Korea. When human has monoploy power, they will use it. Worst in the US from the lobbist, foreign country can buy influence in the US policy but not the people.
 @ravenzyblack  the guy was talking only about the rich.  anyway, some of the example given here is that 12 year sentence went to little over a year and then she only served 5 months.  that does not happen in the States.  however your comment about the parole is true and yes they have that system in korea as well.
 @tiredbylife.5589  Are you joking? Singapore? You're calling a tax haven for the rich and authoritarian regime better than the US?
@Stepher45 As a US citizen, you don't know anything about your own country. Try traveling more and talking to people outside of the US. Most countries don't even have a functioning FTC and SEC.
In South Korea, you need to add 5. Still running the company while behind bars.
 @yeetboi268  "Name a country stricter than the US" Oh boy :)))
=NOT exactly...THESE ARRESTS WERE not ORDERED BY PUBLIC,BUT BY )*GOVERNANCE OF UNITES STATES*_  ..........PUBLIC.......IS BASICALLY ok WITH THAT BECAUSE THEY"RE LIVING IN A DREAM TO have a chance TO BECOME SUCH AN IMPORTANT FIGURE.....AND IF DIDNT SUCEED,"everyone do not win in a lottery"
 @yeetboi268 Yeah we can tell you’re a US citizen… It’s glaringly obvious.
 @yeetboi268  Lmao look at who is your president at the moment, right Mr. Trump?
direct the media to gather and publish paid 'independent citizens' opinions' remembering convicted good legacies and start building momentum for consent to rehabilitate.
 @yeetboi268  the law we are talking about. Singapore has one of the toughest criminal laws. They even put you in jail for loitering.
 @ravenzyblack  Which means only that sentences are longer to start with, as happened here in the UK resulting in overflowing prisons filled with working class men.
 @yeetboi268  not even close, very rich people rarely go to jail in the US, if it's for fraud it get swept under the rug and if it's a scandal caught by the press they put the responsability on the lower rungs of the ladder, one exemple: the oxycontin scandal they created a drug crisis killed a ton of people and yet the upper echelons got away scot free.
 @yeetboi268  yeah, that's because the super rich NEVER go to jail, their scandals are swept under the rug immediately
 @yeetboi268  Ever heard of certain Hunter Biden? Or Gerald Ford pardoning Nixon? We in Europe remember
@yeetboi268 you said name a country stricter than the USA, not a country better than the USA. Singapore is definitely much more strict and has way harsher sentences than the USA. Many countries do.
 @yeetboi268  So first you claim it doesn't happen. Then you say 80% is nothing? How much farther are you going to move the goalpost before your cognitive dissonance gets overstretched?
@yeetboi268 Who is in prison for making atomic experiments near civilians? Who is in prison for burning crop fields and making the air barely breathable? Who is in prison for making the American health care system the most expensive in the world, with such bad service? Who is in prison for the Airbus malfunctions? Who is in prison for the FinCEN files? Who is in prison for the purposely hidden ignition problems in GM cars? Who is in prison for Amazon destroying perfectly functioning goods to inflate their prices?  These are just a few examples that come to mind. I am sure there are plenty more and worse cases.
 @yeetboi268  clearly you don't know what a presidential pardon is. Please sit down.
Watch Kdrama and you will know this. Not the romance kdrama type, other genre kdrama.
2a. Make sure the place is lavish, and all luxury goods provided.
 @ravenzyblack everyone does that, not just the rich, and it isn’t a secretive way, it’s known
@yeetboi268 Well, it does now with Trump. Also there are presidential pardons.
Good to see Varoufakis mentioned. More people need to listen to him.
Notice the trend towards everything becoming a lease or a subscription.   When everything you use and need is tied to a contract, you’re still a serf; tied to financial agreements rather than land. Nothing is truly yours
Thank you, I have to research this more- the Age of Aquarius Techno Autocracy
There is a perfectly good reason for that. These companies are actively providing new content. We can choose to buy a song or movie, but we prefer to have the option of renting hundreds instead
Varoyfakis was Greece's finance minister at the first six months of 2015
I agree with Yanis except the part where it’s not Capitalism. It is definitively the end point of Capitalism.
@thelouster5815  Depends on how you define it. He means free markets acting through free competition ala laissez-faire.
He is without error in his analysis. The claim that South Korea is a hyper capitalist society when its problems come from government corruption is hilarious. Both countries suffer from anticapitalism, except that it exists only in the upper echelon in South Korea, with pretense bellow.
Except serfs worked way less than we do in the "modern" world
This analogy doesn’t make sense because anyone can try to become a CEO / vassal the only thing stopping you is you. Nonsensical 😂
Techno feudalism is a good word. And yes, the changes are happening cross-generationally, so the only people who are feeling the harsher conditions are the young generation who have no frame of reference. When it was our parents' turn, they still had the buying power and taxes weren't that high. Now it's our turn and slowly the screws have been tightened over time. The new nobility is extracting as much as it can from its serfs, and the government does its part as well. The thing is, in modern society we are so isolated from each other that we don't have a class consciousness. We are sufferning in silence and suffering by ourselves. We tell ourselves we have only ourselves to blame, that if we worked harder or smarter, we could improve our situation. But there's more to it. So much wealth is held by these hereditary noble families, and they use their influence to increase that wealth ever further at the cost of society at large
Except employes are not serfs in any way because 1) you have a choice of who to work for and corporations compete for top talent (unless you do menial work, then yes you're basically a serf) 2) you have the option to leave your employer and work for someone else, or even yourself. Serfs had no such options and had no property of their own. This entire analogy is weak and lazy.
 @Diaryofaninja  Yeah they can try doesn't mean they can beccome. And why you aren't a CEO?
@ If they can’t become one it’s a skill issue whereas you can’t become a vassal just because you want to. Critical thinking lil bro 😂
One of Professor Bruce Cummings’ graduate students at U. Of Chicago has researched how much American sugar has been pushed into the South Korean market, producing the sweetest pastries in Asia.
But he can word it anyway he wants, this is Capitalism! The end game of capitalism is winner takes all. Don't be fooled by these shiny new phrases.
 @richardgoed8101  Its far easier today to become an CEO then become a king back in the day, you can start a company and live of it for the rest of your life, good luck with that in medieval times.
Agreed 100%. Yanis is one of the great thinkers of our time, thank you for mentioning him! 2025 will be the year it’ll all accelerate and come to a head. It’ll be many weeks where decades worth of news happens.
​ @elisethearmy "even music" is one of the worst examples you could give.
Where is capitalism gone? Your (or what you state varoufakis said) explanations sound very conspiracy theory like
@Adisonadibeba  you must be too young to remember when people had to buy songs on iTunes or illegally download stuff from YouTube to listen to songs without wifi
This couldn't be more clear with the current state of the US presidency transition (european myself, just following the news).  Great comment and thanks for bringing that up!
This concept seems wrong, at least in the South Korean example, CEOs are not vassal and government is not the lord, you can see that CEOs are above the government laws so call them "vassals" is incorrent, so this metaphor seems misleading.
Did Yanis Varoufakis  forget that you vote your 'lord' and the lord should employ that structure to the benefit of the 'serfs' or did you?
 @elisethearmy  I remember that, I spend nearly my whole pocket money on buying songs on iTunes or CDs  But that doesn't change anything on the fact that music streaming is a bad example for the absurdity of subscriptions  Subscriptions get absurd when people want to buy the products but can't because the provider only offers subscription models (cause it's advantageous for them and disadvantageous for the consumer)  But in the music industry the provider had to offer advantageous subscriptions (in the consumers viewpoint) cause otherwise they wouldn't spend anything on music but instead stream illegally. It's the same with movies, Tv show streaming. Due to the possibility of illegal streaming the power lies with the consumer and not the legal providers
To me it seems like someone just doesn't want to call it capitalism.
@ДокторЯдо  Tell me the defintion of capitalism and explain how this qualifies.
Capitalism is not long gone, this is capitalism. We didnt "reverted back to feudalism" due to "human nature", capitalism and feudalism is just similar.
 @ДокторЯдо  People want to call "bad" capitalism practices anything but capitalism lol
 @bigstabby  I did, but yt scripts deleted it over some harmless word.
​ @thelouster5815 I'd agree and say that it's the end point of corporate capitalism, but the very definition of capitalism (at least one of the main non-negotiables) is market completion. If you do something better than someone else you should be rewarded accordingly. Nowadays tho cooperations have so much power through lobbying, patents, media and advertising that competition is quickly stifled, defamed, bought out or buried. With that point being made I'd say its harmful to call any method of running a society inherently good or bad, both capitalism and communism and everything else always works in concept, but have never been properly demonstrated. Whether or not that problem is fixable I don't want to know
The world will be like the game Syndicate, sooner or later. Or Cyberpunk.
@ДокторЯдо Have the word first does not make you the best at it. it's irrelevent.
 @Shinkajo  it is, china is also capitalism but with dictatorship on top, both can coexist
@Shinkajo  Capitalism is a broad, almost slang term. Typically, capitalism is used to describe the laissez faire type of free market. When you consider the bureaucratic weaponization of subsidies, bailouts, permits, licenses, and fees, used to suppress small business competition for large corporations, as well as government overregulation which stifles growth, and creating a business landscape that favors the large corporations that line the pockets of politicians in the form of special interests, you now have something closer to either a command-control economy through bureaucracy, or this kind of amalgamation of technocracy and feudalism mention by Yanis. It's easy to just say "bah late-stage capitalism!", but really, our economy and our markets are no longer free, thus no longer qualify as capitalism. The closest type of capitalism to what we have is keynesian economics but since everyone who criticizes "capitalism", demands more government intervention, I don't think keynesian economics qualify as this ever-morphing term we call "capitalism".
I'm Korean and this is such a bunch of nonsense lol.
in korea, corporations as lords. and government is controlled by corporations.
I mean.. it ain't the same. Sefs couldn't actually even LEAVE their farms. But we do all agree its really bad and that we're gnna need some kind of interventionism.
@ I'm Korean and we have a 40 hour workweek, just like you The difference is our country is some 50 years ahead of yours in health, safety and technology
Capitalism is not “long gone” techno-feudalism isn’t but a form of capitalism. The dangers of capitalism’s tendency to form oligarchy were all theorised by Marx more than 150 years ago
​ @elisethearmy Bad example, literally every artist still brings out CDs and most even vinyl. We consciously choose not to buy them.
 @DrakesdenChannel  What is causing the government corruption? It's the CEOs and capitalists that are bribing the government. This is not only the fault of government, it is the fault of the capitalist class. You cannot have less power than the people you are bribing. If you are the one doing the bribing, you are the one with the power. When capitalism is allowed to exist without regulation, limits, or contraints, it becomes feudalism.
 @bigstabby but we also have to understand that we would still have a corporation like standard oil nowadays if it wasn’t for government regulation, without regulation, a free market will be stifled when companies become corporations and monopolize the industry, laissez faire in the government led to baron robbers such as rockefeller and carnegie  Even now America is facing the same issue with massive monopolies in real estate, media, oil, etc. I believe it to be more of an issue of such laissez faire practice in the market that allowed corporations to rise, who then began to stifle competition. Some government regulation and anti-trust is needed, and more of the blame should be placed on laissez faire practice over government regulation, but that’s my opinion
​@hunterofthevoid5228 he wasn't an bad president as far I know ?
I rather quote Che Guevara, when he said that the revolution is forced upon the people
Thats why the millionaires work hard to please the public even if it is a facade.
Nope, revolution will be really hard in developed countries. The more solid the social structure, the harder it is.  Unless a developed country fails so hard in it's economy it's will not happen.  Besides, for a common man, security, food & national pride or sense of superiority is more of a priority over moralistic movements.  Unless, they are the ones being harmed.
 @Michael.......................  He was so bad, the CIA took him out. So they can do what they are doing today. 😂
Remains to be seen if the population will actually prove this true. I have my doubts. People strongly prefer comfort and security over freedom and rule of law.
wow i Love this quote that is exactly what might happen in my country unfortunately because people are frustrated!
When it’s social change, peaceful protesting work, but when you’re protesting against greedy people with power…
I lived in South Korea for two years teaching, and I can't stress enough how much it is an open secret the chaebols are the ones really running the country. Literally, everyone I would talk to about this from young to old knew that the big families were untouchable. Honestly, even just working at one of these companies is seen as a big deal in Korea, because it is understood that there are many benefits besides compensation when you are working for these companies.   As an example, I had a friend in Korea who worked at Samsung, just a mid level position, but soon after joining the company he became close friends with the head of police in the town we were both living in, and whenever there was an issue with the law he would call his friend and then magically the problem would go away. This is just a small town example, so I can only imagine what the top guys are up to on a daily basis.   Edit for the people asking: During my time in Korea, I worked at 2 different Hagwons. The first was in a small town (of about 100,000, by Korean standards that is small) that I highly doubt anyone here would know by name, most Koreans  I talk to about it don't know about it. The second was at a major Hagwon in Seoul in the rich part of town, called Gangnam. I don't want to give the name because many celebrities' kids go to the school, but all you need to know is I met a lot of extremely rich people there. Like, several of my students' parents were CEOs, judges, politicians, etc.  Edit 2 for the people asking: I became friends with this Samsung employee because his younger brother was one of my students. At first, we would just chat in the lobby waiting for his brother. But over time we started hanging out outside of the school. Mostly because he wanted a foreigner friend to practice his English with, since he started going overseas often because of his new role at Samsung. Again, I am not 100% sure what his role was, we would just chat while drinking soju or eating food sometimes after work. That's all.  So for the people who are asking questions regarding his role, I genuinely don't know. And for people who think that is strange, I just want to say, I'm a guy, and like most guys I very rarely talk to my guy friends about their jobs. There are guy friends I have had for more then 10 years that I still do not 100% know what they do for work. All I know is that he told me he was in a "mid-level" position and that he was in charge of his own team. That's literally all I know, that and I believe he was in some aspect of promotion because I know he would go to different type of events around the world and around Korean fairly often. One time he got me into F1 for free when it was in Seoul because he had a booth there, and I was able to go behind the scenes. But that is literally all I know.
"The more i learn about people, the more i like my dog"    -Mark Twain
I remember watching the ferry disaster in real time. I honestly thought those kids were gonna be rescued. When they weren't the Vice Principle of their school hung himself on a tree down by the docks where the parents were waiting for news on the rescue.
It’s crazy how the people who were supposed to save them were taking a whole lunch break while watching the boat sink and the American navy were there offered to help, but they were rejected. The only people that helped were locals with boats and on top of that, the parents of children who died were told that their kids were still alive. What makes this case so bad is the fact that the boat not only sunk extremely slowly, but the government had so many opportunities to save them but chose not to.
There are videos of the drowning recorded by the school children.  “Are we going to die?” “I don’t want to die…” as the situation slowly becomes more and more real you can hear the fear begin to manifest. Absolutely horrifying. Heartbreaking and absurd.   It brings me to tears just thinking about it… I strongly recommend against seeking it out. It’s one of those few things that I truly regret having seen.
❌Samsung is a South Korean company ✅South Korea is a Samsung country
I'm Korean. First of all, it was very interesting to shed light on the term chaebol that only exists in Korea. Even in Korea, there are views that are wary of the family management of chaebol and the harm caused by it. So expressing negative views on chaebol is not just new. However, it is very strange to link the Ferry Sewol incident with the chaebol. Ferry Sewol is a regrettable accident, but it is difficult to regard it as an accident caused by the widespread management of chaebol in Korea. The Ferry Sewol incident is more like a human disaster caused by the shipping company's complacent response and the government's insufficient rescue activities rather than related to the chaebol. I feel sorry for the students who died in the Sewol ferry disaster. However, I find this video somewhat far-fetched and find it difficult to agree.
The sad thing is, this doesn't even scratch the surface... especially regarding the Sewol tragedy, those involved, those complicit, and those who literally just stood by and allowed it to be worse than it needed to be. If anyone is ever in the need of a good cry, and doesn't mind never being the same again, I strongly urge them to watch a documentary or two on the Sewol disaster
What I learned about South-Korea by a good friend from Busan is that your "shell" is more important than your "core". Like... what kind of soul you have and how good you try to be as a human is just second to the general society standards... your looks, your skin, your eyes, your teeth etc. are more important - and also the prestige level of your education of course. How you shine to the world is number one priority. Most people don't even like that but everyone goes with the flow. On one side this attitude as a base made South-Korea to easily the cleanest and most modern industrial country in the world... it's not like in the USA, in Europe or even Southeast-Asia that you have loads of (teenager) crimes, problems with graffiti or stuff like that. You can sit, go and look everywhere without problems of safety or impurities - even big cities are clean, extremely well managed and maintained and you have the most modern technology for basically every area of ​​activity. On the other side South-Korea is damned with the worldwide highest suicide rate, very bad mobbing statistics for schools, colleges and companies and a very critical rate of people in debth (because of trying to always have the most modern and expensive things, which is hard to do even when having a well paid job). Also the wide spread of plastic surgery and the public urge to change your visuals is extremely concerning, especially because it always stands in connection with the before mentioned mobbing, suicide rate etc. - and even high ranked employees are not immune to that. And all those high standards can be seen in every working field, every niche, all types of media and entertainment - K-POP f.e. is beside of the music a big, big act of this "false perfectionism". But in the end from what I've seen is that South-Koreans (especially the youngest generations) are getting more and more away from these insane society standards, but it's def. still a long journey. A beautiful country with so many smart people and a lot of values and things that I personally would def. love to see in the western world (at leats to a certain extend) - but nothing is perfect and the more a society is built on "perfectionism", the more problems are coming with that.
“The corpos built a system that feeds on human misery. They’ll crush a city if it makes them a buck.” - Johnny Silverhand
This country has a strong academic society and lookism is widespread, and it is impossible for ordinary citizens to hold high positions unless they undergo plastic surgery or become highly educated.
It’s interesting how, in some countries, it’s easy to associate the faces and names of powerful individuals with the companies and crimes they are responsible for. In contrast, in the U.S., we often speak about corporations or institutions in abstract terms, without ever putting a face to those behind them. Companies like BlackRock, Vanguard, or Coca-Cola—and even powerful agencies like the FBI and CIA—frequently make headlines, but the blame rarely extends to the individuals who drive their decisions. When wrongdoing occurs, the public hears the company’s name, but those truly responsible remain faceless and nameless. This disconnect allows accountability to vanish behind corporate logos and institutional titles, shielding the people at the top from personal scrutiny.
웃긴게, 영어로 댓글을 다는 사람들은 영상을 모두믿고 한국을 디스토피아라고 비하하는데 한글로 댓글을 다는 한국 사람들은 영상이 잘못됐음을 지적함. 도대체 교통사고를 재벌과 왜 연관시키는거지? 음모론은 직관적이고 그럴듯한 설명을 제공하여 사람들의 기분을 만족시킬순 있지만, 전혀 비논리적이고 문제를 해결할 수가 없음. 이런 선동을 하는 유튜버가 있단것이 안타깝고, 그런 선동에 속는 대부분의 비한국인들이 생긴게 더더욱 안타까움. 그들이 영상이 잘못됐음을 지적하는 한국인들의 말은 무시하는것도 안타깝고.
So the people responsible walked free but those lower down who had no choice but to follow order is jailed for life? The same with the Halloween crush in Seoul. They hung the head of police whose personnel were withdrawn to another area and left him hanging with not enough police force to keep the safety of the public in one of the busiest nights of the year. Shame. Shame.
South Korea has never move out of the Feudalism, it is just modernized.
The scary thing is, Lee Jae-Yong the "Samsung Prince" is the richest person in the country with an estimate wealth of 8.7 billion, and he's above the law. Imagine the oligarchs of America who are worth 50x that much.
Pretty much same thing happened in most Asean countries that for sure.
No rich person is untouchable, they want you to think that
bro working at samsung doesnt make you friends with a police chief lol. Thats like saying working at apple would do the same. Especially when the guy is just an average mid level worker making 100k a year. either you misunderstood something or you are clearly lying
​ @josephp9141  The fact that you equated Silicon Valley culture to small town Korean culture is hilarious. Claiming that a person you don't know misunderstood another person you don't know is also hilarious.
 @josephp9141  I'm sorry but apple in America cannot be compared to Samsung in South Korea... Everything about Samsung in South Korea is a Big deal. Despite them doing corrupt and inhumane things people is still drawn to their wealth.. Working at a place like Samsung in South Korea is a big deal even if you just mop up the place people would still wonder why and how did such people hire you to work for them. Keep in mind they own 60% of the country without Samsung South Korea is basically the next North Korea ( i don't want to exaggerate ) if you watch the vid and do a little research you would get what the commentator is saying initially.
 @dominantalphaboy651  I believe there is some exaggeration in your statement. Even Samsung's CEO has been prosecuted and served his time in jail. Please do not exaggerate or make misleading claims.
I think you should educate yourself more and be more prepared as a teacher prior going to a foreign countries to teach.
Working at Samsung is nothing special though. The experience you had with your friend is truly bizarre. Even executive level employees have no benefit in real life than getting lower salary than small business owners. And yes I was born and raised in South Korea. Not that I don’t believe your story, but just an extraordinary case I would say.
Its funny that a foreign language teacher and an office worker from Samsung became friends. When they're friends with you, they meet bosses and other high-ranking people, Why would someone high enough to meet the police chief make a relationship with you? And people in mid-level positions can meet high-ranking people, Its normal to not have time to meet or network
Probably Squid Game shit. Maybe the ferry incident wasn't what we were told, but a death ritual.
 @Heretiksb  right lol So many people online watch things about Korea and think they understand and can make fair comparisons
Korean here and your example totally does not make sense at all. There are hundreds of thousands of people working for Samsung in Korea and what’s that relation with the police? That is a joke
My brother works for Samsung  HQ and he doesn' have any police friend at all. LOL. This story is totally non sense.
I guess your two year experience in korea was not enough 😅 You have no idea how many ceos have been sent to jail.
​ @Thumbup-b9n  but for how long? How long are their sentenced time and what are their actual served time?
 @dewakipas_rill what are the other ones? I only know another one where it’s the totally opposite
 @josephp9141  you clearly don’t understand South Korean corporate dynamics, especially regarding a company like Samsung, which powers a large portion of South Korea’s economy. Not just any Korean gets to work at Samsung; talk to any Korean and I assure you they will say the same thing. Working at Silicon Valley in the US is nothing compared to working at Samsung in SoKor.
 @josephp9141  no way ur comparing different cultures total smooth brain over here
What?!? I lived in Korea for 30 years and this comment is absolutely NOT TRUE!!! Just like any other countries  of course  big companies offer you with more benefit and salary and that's why ppl want to get a job there. But it has nothing to do with which class you're in! And being friend with local policeman has nothing to do with where you work! I have no idea what you were told by your friend, but I guess your friend is a terrible liar or maybe you're exaggerating what you have been told. 😂 this story is so stupid
​@MicoB1022  are you from Korea? Because I am and have many friends working in Samsung and other big corporates, and this comment is such a stupid bullshit. Companies in south Korea are no different from companies from other countries. There seems to be so many "Korean experts" who just imagine things......😂😂
Oh look the foreign teacher and their usual spreading of lies and stereotypes online...
hi. I'm Korean living in Korea for my whole life. And I am working in Hyundai Motors Group. We Koreans say, regardless of the size of company we are working in, employees are nothing but slaves ,even though Samsung, Hyundai  offer more decent paycheck, there is still no difference about the fact that being employed by others will never be a way of being a rich since most of wealth has already accumulated to those who are rich, aka.Chaebol.  so it is not true at least that being a employee of some huge company like Samsung empowers you beyond the boundaries of law of cultural norms.  we, employees,  just regard each others as slaves of Chaebol. but most people take that fact because anyway the form of being hired is permanent in most case of Korea so that we can get a decent paycheck until we get 60 years old. So we choose to be in a way of stable and decent but never able to be a rich.
This is literally too much exaggerated lol Im korean and I work for Samsung Electronics. Head of a Police station handling things for ease of a Mid level Samsung employee ? You watched too much K Drama bro lol
The us isn’t much different, considering how much resources went into finding luigi.
I remember being baffled about how South Korea was portrayed in flashbacks of 'Lost' - now I can say they were most likely just disturbingly accurate.
망상이 심합니다 ㅋㅋㅋ 삼성 일하는 주변사람 많지만, 경창서장이랑 친해진다고요? 80년대도 아니고 무슨 ㅋㅋㅋㅋ  삼성,현대,LG,SK하이닉스 다니는 임직원 수가 몇명인데 말도 안되는 소리를 하나요.  그냥 일도 안해보고, 상상속에 사는 사람이 하는 개소리입니다.
 @Felizchi  your bro doesnt speak for everybody and prob your bro doesnt have the kills communication wise to.
It's not true. Why do people judge the situation before they fully grasp the context and even spread it to the internet? That's weird. Working at Samsung can make you approved with your ability, but it is just one of the companies with good conditions; it does not give you any authority, as this guy depicted. My father had worked at Samsung for a long time, and I just want to correct it.
 @sutri8887  what you said in the first half would be okay: but the second half throws it off your father experience cannot speak for her friend. I agree the last part ab law and stuff seem a little unactual but the first half is pretty believable.
My question is, why would non-koreans make shit up like this? Working for Samsung is just like working for any other companies fr in so many ways. Does it come with a lot og benefits? Yes. But does it make you so important that you can control the police? No. And the fact that so many people would buy this smh it's like they almost want to believe this shit
A mid level position Samsung guy cannot do a such thing as a mid level position can be a chief manager most of the time at the age of 40 - 45… either your mate lied to brag or you are clearly lying.
@dominantalphaboy651  You dismiss my father’s experience as irrelevant but blindly accept the original commenter’s anecdote. Both are individual stories, yet you selectively believe one to push a biased narrative.  As someone who understands Korean laws and culture, I can assure you South Korea is a rule-of-law country. Claims about "magically" bypassing laws due to corporate ties are exaggerated and unrealistic. Stop generalizing an entire society based on one sensationalized story.
I've been working for Samsung for 8 years, and you can't get along with police officer.  It's either you are lying or your friend is lying.
It is just 'a little bit high GDP' that a difference between South Korea and other asia countries
ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ 말같지도않은.. ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 오늘도 백수 일본인은 열심히 온라인에서 한국을 비방하고 사네요 ㅠㅠ
 @MicoB1022 Lmao what. Not just any American gets to work at Google and Apple. What's your point?
As a korean, i can confirm that this comment is a bullshit. Working at samsung is a big deal between young people and parents' generation, but immediately being a close friends with the head of police? Do you know how many mid level positions are in whole samsung group? lol They must be friends even before.
The perception is not grounded in reality. Korean history, and East Asian history in general, has been characterized by the primacy of political elites over economic elites. If Hyundai is so powerful, why do Hyundai plant workers in Korea make so much more than GM or Ford plant workers in the US once you factor in cost of living?
The perception is not grounded in reality. Korean history, and East Asian history in general, has been characterized by the primacy of political elites over economic elites. If Hyundai is so powerful, why do Hyundai plant workers in Korea make so much more than GM or Ford plant workers in the US once you factor in cost of living?
Everyone has a profit and loss account. People can't deny the scheming thinking of human beings who think that any connection will eventually be useful.
 @blazingsummit by untouchable, people mean legally lol. Everyone knows that’s implied. Of course no one is physically untouchable, it might just be implausible in some cases. But people are just talking about legality. As in the law wont punish them, or they’ll get off easy.
My mother had the exact same story she also taught in Korea as an English tutor
I believe your story.  I also lived there as an English instructor few years.  우물안 개구리들 잡소리🤡  Hell 조선에서 탈출은 하고 싶지만 현실은 부정하고 싶은가 보다. Don't listen to the frogs in the well in Korea.
삼성 중견급 직원이 경찰서장 빽 있댄다 ㅋㅋ 겨우 이 나라에서 2년동안 영어나 가르쳤으면서 신박한 헛소리를 하네. 아니 2년간 여기서 산게 맞긴 한거냐??
삼성 입사한지 얼마 안 된 사회초년생이 그래봤자 20대 중후반인데, 동네 경찰서장은 평균 54살이다 ㅋㅋㅋㅋ
삼성 직원이 몇명인데 경찰에 전화해서 없던 일로 만든다 이지랄 ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ 소설을 써라 ㅋㅋㅋ
😂😂😂 judging the whole thing only with a single case lol 😂😂 we call that “hasty generalization” ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ My dad is also a samsung man(maybe higher position than your friend), what?? close friends with police?? law problem solved magically????😂😂😂😂😂😂  i hope that happens lol 😂😂😂😂
Hey...😂 what are you talking about? I'm korean and I have a family who works for Samsung. (And my family is just a computer programmer) You are lying. Because the big companies in Korea are in Seoul, there are no employees who work for Samsung in a city of 100,000. I think the people who write comments here don't know much about Korea and believe this video to be true, but the Korean population is concentrated in and around the capital city. Samsung is not the only big company, but there are many global conglomerates such as LG and SK. A Samsung employee gets close to the police? Do you know how many Samsung employees? My hometown is a place where science and technology labs are gathered, and that doesn't happen. Because it's a big city with a population of over 1 million people. I feel that there are so many people who ignore the size of Korea's democracy and economy.  The Ferry Sewol incident was a big tragedy that had nothing to do with large companies. As a Korean, I am very angry to consume such a tragedy that was traumatic for Koreans as false news. Do you have any idea how much discussion has been going on about shipping safety in Korea since that incident?
My parent is a senior worker in Samsung Electonics R&D. With your argument my paremts should be a friend with a minister at this point. In reality, we are just normal family living nornal life.
I'm a Samsung manager, I wish I had that kind of power lol.. this article is scam.
 @yobro4794   what do you mean ? Bro has to graduate kindergarden first
 @yousef858  yeah, because Mark Twain is a famous 2016-era historical author 😹
I thought it was Hank Lieutenant's words from Detroit Become Human
Dude the VP was more responsible than the ferry captain. RIP bro
I could not imagine his anguish when it happened, being the vice principle of that school he would have been one of those in charge of arranging the field trip in the first place, imagine believing you were sending your students on what was supposed to be a harmless fieldtrip on a ferry only to have accidentally condemning the entirety of the school most of whom were children to a horrible agonizing death, an entire generations worth of kids who will never return to their families again. The entire thing was out of his control, he could not have possibly known it would end up like this, but even i would not be able to live with myself and the parents of those children may certainly not be able to forgive. That Captain was a coward, not only did he abandoned ship he actively went out of his way to save his own life by purposefully pretending to not be even a ship worker, ditching his captains articles and his crew.
There aren’t many great teachers in this world. Moment of silence for a real one. 🪷
it’s as if they wanted the kids to die, a lot of conspiracy theorists believe that this ultimately was some sort of human sacrifice planned by the chaebol for his cult and honestly the events are facts damming, like everyone died slowly just because - truly weird and bizarre
 @AnxChan  it definitely was. Everything in this world is lined up, what are the odds that they wouldn't allow another government they have ties with to help and the captain told them all to stay. The thing now is what or who were they sacraficed to and for what purpose
관련 공무원 무능 책임을 대통령에게 뒤집어 씌워 누명 사고를 정치적 이용
It wasn't just the our Navy; it was also our Marines, specifically aboard the USS Bonhomme Richard.  And what's worse is that was no ordinary aircraft carrier, it was an amphibious assault ship.  Whilst an aircraft carrier is primarily a means of projecting air superiority and fighter aircraft, amphibious assault ships are a means of providing logistical support assets and troops.  These were sailors AND marines who were well trained to respond to emergencies, and they HAD the 31st MEU READY WITH RESCURE EQUIPMENT to rush to that Ferry.  Yes by then a large portion of the hull was below the water by this point but it is well believed that at least some or at least a small portion of the students may have been lucky to find small air pockets in the front of the bow sections where some of the water tight bulkheads resided, which nobody will deny was still worth effort.  And it wasn't just the US Navy and Marines that tried to help, the Japanese Coast Guard ALSO tried to offer sending rescue assets to assist, but were denied by S.K. officials to "wait for additional requests of assistance, if they needed them"  The ENTIRE time the S.K. Government had EVERY means to at least make a stronger attempt to save at least SOME of those aboard but felt it was more important to preserve the image of them being independent of foreign assistance.    304 souls aboard the Sewol that day, was the cost of this ego.  We need to highlight that more.
Kindly forgive me, but, I genuinely am curious   May I ask, what are your thoughts on Israel and Palestine?  Please
​ @Arthur-ek7nd nobody's laughing, that's not a joke. People lately have forgotten what a joke actually is 🤦
 @Arthur-ek7nd  Okay, kindly explain the joke then. Also, jokes should be easily recognizable if they’re to be funny. I don’t see why you would be joking about either. I’m sure you think you’re funny using r/whoosh.
the most frustrating thing about the Sewol tragedy was that nobody wanted to call the shots and at the same time did not want to accept help  rescuers were waiting for someone to greenlight the rescue but nobody was willing to do it and take accountability of the operation  a nearby US ship that SPECIALISED in marine rescue offered to help but the gov’t refused  those kids had the opportunity to be saved not once but twice and yet ended up dying
​ @Ennn117  imo, it's called "trolling", not "joking". Because a joke should be received on both sides and to be laugh together.
 @TQM  just because you're not laughing doesn't mean other people aren't. Didn't you learn that in school?
 @Ennn117  the uploader hasn't made a single video about israel especially with whats happened in the last year
Then taiwan is a tsmc countey and finland is nokia country and japan is toyota country
Come on bro korea owns much more big companies than  any other countries like lg sk hynix hybe  hyundai kia samsung
S. Korea is a Samsung country built on US military base.
And yet the GDP per capita by purchasing power AFTER taxes in 2024, *South Korea scored #4 in all of OECD countries at $55,000* according to "OECD Taxing Wages."   Last December, Japanese media was abuzz with alarm at how South Korea has surpassed Japan in GDP per capita, when it was expected to do that in 2027. (South Korea already exceeded Japan by purchasing power per capita in 2018)  Btw for taxing wages, America scored $50,000. The key was US having twice as much taxes. Germany scored $54,000, Japan scored $42,000  South Korea just has a different system than others, this video is driving a false narrative, a mountain of a molehill. It worked for the last few decades, like that doesn't account for anything?  Reminds of another ridiculous video how it claims the previous Samsung owner's death was some secret and said Samsung was run by a zombie, but in reality EVERYONE in South Korea knew he was dead.  Lee Kwan Yew ran a very unique system in Singapore and it has prospered immensely under his iron fist. What's the problem? It worked.
company Korean South a is Samsung ❌ country Samsung a is South Korea ✅
I watch k drama and i never seen iohone once whenever i watch. Jts always samsung
 @CrabTastingMan  If it had been one of your kids in that boat, you 100% would not think this way. You can't measure the value of their lives, add up numbers, compare them to after tax per capita GDP, and then conclude that it all squares out and that "it works."
Perhaps the power of corporations is better than the power of governments after all. In time, it may be easier to find a job in another corporation in the same territory, or to move to another territory without government restrictions on movement, visas, and hard-to-obtain permits.
 @dmitryvlasov5493  The really scary scenario is when the power of corporations is combined with the power of government in this kind of dystopian alliance. Also immigrating is really not easy in multiple ways, just need to give it a try to really see. Historically the best results in living conditions for most people have come not from fleeing elsewhere, but from internal movements in favor of greater social fairness.
 @CrabTastingMan  Switzerland has a larger per capita than the US, by your argument, you'd think they run the world.
맞죠 다른 외국 유튜브만 봐도 재벌이 한국정부 그 위에 있는 것처럼 묘사하는데 좀 지나치게 과장하는 것 같아요.오히려 삼성 엘지가 외국 기업들보다 더 정부 눈치 보는거 같은데
 @mad4306  제가 말하고자 하는 건, 경제에 비해 재벌이 너무 '가치'가 있다는 이유만으로, 범죄의 성격에 상관없이 3년 징역형을 선고하고 5년간 유예하고, 그 기간 동안 추가 위법 행위가 없으면 면제하는 법을 말하는 거예요.
@franalexisviduya479 agree, but the point is what connects that collusion between politics and business to sewol accident. this entire video is some how quiet an assault to the victims. Given, that madness made him write these comments.
@franalexisviduya479 all i learn here is that you guys are so pedantic that make up some bull shit with something you have heard somewhere unreliable and even you didnt really experience or study and suddenly believe it for you to feel some kind of feeling of superiority. what a shame
I heard a theory that the sewol incident was a religous sacrifice event or something
Source: “I’m Korean”.   Idk dude. They do a lot of research for these videos. Just because you’re Korean doesn’t mean you know better than someone who researched it who isn’t Korean.
​ @wolfiemuse  I'm Korean who does a lot of research in this political and economic sector. Sewol ferry disaster is as a result of lack of policing and very stiff and unflexible government environment that led to late and half assed rescue operation. But it is not a result from Chaebol's greed. Also these Chaebol companies are not above the government, if that was the case our country would have never recovered from Asian financial disaster in the 90s. The 3rd largest Chaebol, Daewoo, went completely bankrupt as a result. If they are so powerful, why did it go bankrupt?
 @wolfiemuse  Don't be a jerk. I'm a person who listens to Korean political, cultural, and economic news every day. I'm Korean and I know Korea better than anyone else. It's ridiculous to compare Koreans to foreigners who research on the internet where fake information is rampant to make this video. In terms of understanding Korean culture, emotions, language, and customs, there is no one more expert than me in this field. It's wiser to trust the information and judgment of local people living there rather than trusting the internet.   Koreans are actually a country of humor that criticizes each other and satirizes Korea's bad points. Koreans are used to criticism and satire. That's why I'm not saying not to criticize Korea. If there is a bad thing about Korea, I want to criticize it, and I think those who don't live in Korea can criticize it enough. However, I want to prevent the spread of logic that doesn't make sense. I want to hear proper criticism.  Lastly, I want to let you know that this is not just a small minority of Koreans. Many Koreans are leaving comments saying that this video is a complete fabrication of low-quality fake information.
@ I have seen little evidence to support your final claim, and I still disagree with your point. I am American and a foreigner doing research about my political system might just know more than me. As a random comment on the internet, you don’t have any credibility that would make it much easier to be like “Oh, you do research all the time and have a track record of doing so publicly on the internet, I tentatively trust you.” You’re a random comment. Theres no need to get so defensive about it. I am simply suggesting that it’s possible someone else who has a track record on the internet that is known might be seen as a more reliable source.
I don't think I can watch it because it's too heartbreaking for me
It's so unbelievably horrible and heartbreaking to watch divers volunteer to dive into every single room of the sank ship in total darkness to take the floating bodies of the dead kids out for their parents. It's really ending the anxious waiting of the parents with the desperate confirmation of their kids' death. And I can't imagine the horror of diving into the rooms with floating bodies and the signs of their last struggle, like scratching off their nails on the wall. After watching the documentaries, I literally freaked out in the next few days when I washed my hair in the shower, closed my eyes, and let water flow all over my head and face cause I just could not stop thinking of those divers entering a room in total darkness and rotting bodies soaked in water popped up right into their faces.   An absolute disaster for anyone, live or dead.😭😭😭😭😭
​​ @yumingliu5560 You forgot to mention the voice recording of the students in their final moment.
you are even talking for this, such things happen every other day in a coutry like India and nobody cares.
I watched a video on it. The ship sunk SLOWLY. There was PLENTY of time for all the kids to get out but they were told to stay below deck. Also, there was a ship nearby with 1000 US Marines who offered to help, and South Korea told them they had it handled.
 @user-du7if7xq3k  1000 US marines wont do anything. Water-based rescue missions are unique in their own right that more people= does not equal better. the coverage are of a ship is very limited, and having more boats + people + a bunch of people who don't speak korean would actually slow down efforts more. There is a limited number of people up to a certain point which would make rescue slower. For example, like above 15 boats + around a single casualty area slows down rescue efforts more than speeding it up.  makes sense cause in the sewol rescue the korean coast guard completely surrounds the boat and there wouldnt be any more space for other boats/rescue services to partake in the rescue.
 @normalaccount9823  That’s really all irrelevant - the point being made is that there were three or four options once the ship was sinking - after it had sunk!! For divers and coast guard to go in and rescue the kids and they were literally physically barred from doing so.   The parents were gathered on a nearby dock as their kids drowned while non one was allowed to go and save them.   That’s fucking suffering.
 @normalaccount9823  These weren't just ANY Marines.  These were sailors and marines aboard the USS Bonhomme Richard, which was not just ANY ship; this is an amphibious assault ship with men and women aboard who were well trained to respond to disasters, and a ship with a myriad of assets and a means on board to receive people who would need some immediate medical attention.  And USS Bonhomme Richard wasn't just any amphibious assault ship, she was one of the oldest assets we had out in 7th fleet at the time, and the entire crew aboard made it a point to ensure that ship was always capable to be out at sea, to a point where she was out at sea more than most of the 7th fleet assets.  You're right that recue operations are very technically involved and require a lot of coordination and planning.  But you are downplaying exactly WHO the US sent to respond to that situation.   In essence; the Bonhomme Richard is DESIGNED to provide logistical assets and personnel, and the sailors and marines are TRAINED to respond to emergencies and disasters.  We didn't just send any ship to them; we sent them what is akin to a First Responder that is sent to an accident.  Those ships are literally designed to handle ANYTHING that our marines in forward operations might need, which INCLUDES medical and rescue personnel along with all of the logistical assets to provide the support.
I think 'mafia' fits better... they are families, they also happen to all be criminals
The 5 Mafia families were also families, i guess. Then La Famiglia in Italy, etc
No , they are literally families that's why he said it
@OFFICERHUMANRATthis is the first time I ever seen bots advertise like this wtf is this bs
'goverments' is a very polite way of saying gangs i can be edgy too
Not really, these people are literally related, they're married,  children, etc.
These are literally families. And it seems that oligarchy is not a crime in Korea.
SK distances itself from NK ideals so extremely that they end up at the opposite extreme
 @monkofdarktimes  and while both sides are not ideal, one side is filled with starving people that can have their families put in labor camps for multiple generations. the other side is a country with high living standards, not starving, and people can actually do things with their lives.  Capitalism unrestrained is bad, but Communism is the very definition of failure.
Both countries would be hell to live in. Just for very different reasons.
 @monkofdarktimes  <<You and I are the two sides of the same coin>> ~Pixy from Ace Combat Zero
I heard from several articles that the youth call South Korea "Hell Joseon".
​ @maxheadman59  Oh! We actually do 😮 It's a really widespread term- teens, 20s to middle aged people all use it frequently. But of course there are also people who differ and like the current state of korea.
Middle ground is the best, many countries in the world did just that, some are small. But there is a big one too.
Imagine thinking that government allowed monopolies have something to do with capitalism. No company can become this big without opposition if it's not protected by the state.
 @apexlegendshackerman  Spoken like a person who has no idea what communism is.
 @apexlegendshackerman   >the other side is a country with high living standards, not starving, and people can actually do things with their lives.  LOL. Yeah, about that...
 @apexlegendshackerman  How much is the international sactions and blockade by the capitalism nation causes the failure of communism?
 @apexlegendshackerman  like u know anything  about capitalism or communism, lmao
If communism is so great, why do socialist nations get wrecked by capitalist ones economically? ​ @syafiqaszamin6411 
​​ @erf2324 are you sure they get crushed economically? The notion of "commununism", "socialism" and "capitalism" exist on a wide spectrum. China is a socialist country, and I think they are not being crushed economically compared to capiralist countries. I'll give you another example. I'm from Vietnam, a country that has a socialist ideology. We're still nothing compared to big countries, but we have been on the thrive for the past 30 years, from a very poor background also. We could have been exactly like North Korea, but we're not. So I'd say it's not entirely due to "communism" and "capitalism" that is responsible for the thrive or downfall of a country. It's the leaders, the people, the human factor. Also, like someone previously mentioned, NK has also been under heavy sanctions by the US. Had the country not been under heavy sanction, would it have thrived? Nobody knows.
 @apexlegendshackerman   "one side is filled with starving people that can have their families put in labor camps for multiple generations-" and the other is North Korea?
​@longleminh8964  not reading past the first 2 lines.  Some features of China can be argued they are even more capitalistic than the US 😂
Seeing this, which of these two systems would you rather live in?
​@apexlegendshackerman  not quite. You think that one side puts families in labor camps. But is it actually true
 @JustinB-rl6vz  Neither, if I have a choice I'd rather go to Japan. Between NK and SK it's SK any day , at least then I'll have the option to leave freely and not have to die out of hunger and sung praises of the Supreme overlord.
SK not a capitalism lol. It's corporatism, left ideology as fascism (not so left and close to to communism as nazi, but still left).
its beautiful really although humans stay so naive thinking either of these systems will ever work while we see time and time again that it does not.
North Korea long abandoned communism and now South Korea is corporatocracy. Where I see the common thread is in the very efficient economic model both had of corporatism, now China is basically the only corporate state and history has clearly shown that despite corporatism being very efficient at building a country, what comes after it is true dystopia. Even Sweden which was a corporate state from 1932-1976 or modern Singapore (a corporate state under Lee Kuan Yew) are falling into this dystopian trap with no modem economic model fit for the 21st century
Furthermore, in the South, there is a strong educational society and lookism, and ordinary citizens cannot attain high positions unless they undergo plastic surgery or become highly educated.
North Korea and South Korea. The two major anomalies in the world, the US Soviet rivalry at that time, were largely the result of the collision between communism and capitalism, with all the impurities eliminated concentrated in these two countries Unfortunately, both of these countries happen to be near China, and the most coincidental thing is that China is the only combination of socialism and capitalism in the world,
99% of people here blaming capitalism without actually knowing what it is
It's Corporatism not capitalism because capitalism is not a societal or government system, it's an economic system. Capitalism simply means free market, when the government gets involved, it automatically becomes corporatism.  It's quite baffling how people don't even know what capitalism is and yet use the term with 101% confidence. 😂  Either way, it's still a better system than Communism or socialism.
​ @HK-gm8pe  yep, plutocracy is the terminal phase of capitalism.  the more money you have the easier it is to make more
 @monkofdarktimes  That's...not even remotely how this works. You really need to do some reading. People like you need cut off from the internet until you've learned a little more.
I would say that exempting a set amount of businessmen from taxes and giving them unfair advantage that nobody else can compete with, then not having any antitrust initiatives against merges that create monopolies is NOT capitalism. I really goes against the idea of competitive market.
 @mand4lex  This isn't even close to extremes capitalism could go. North Korea is hardly effective at communism either though.
@longleminh8964  China is hardly a socialist country by any socialists standards. Their economic system is far more similar to the Nazi or Fascist Italy kind of "socialism". That's not hyperbole. Just look into it.
@longleminh8964  Yes. They get crushed. But besides that. North Korea continues to suffer because it utilizes 36% of its GDP to military spending. It also restricts so much freedom that advancement is near impossible.   It also still has plenty of allies who can and have provided assistance, regardless of sanctions. But maybe I'm just misinformed and I don't know which sanctions you're referring to. I just thought the greatest shift for North Korea was the Soviet Union falling, not sanctions.
Oligarchy is not Capitalism. Capitalism implies Free Markets, including the power to break monopolies etc.
@anonymouslyopinionated656  In THEORY, you are correct. But capitalism does not work in practice. Exhibit A is the world.
Corporatism is a better description, as they use the power of the state to protect themselves. Several times here we've seen in this video that if the laws were applied to them equally, they'd be in prison and made accountable, but state power protects them.
​ @anonymouslyopinionated656  No, capitalism only means that acquiring capital is the main goal... Free markets can be one outcome of the idea but are not the only one... Oligarchies still operate within the capitalistic realm
 @apexlegendshackerman  You're right, both sides are not ideal but comparing them is faulty, as capitalism has starved and killed billions across history in the name of profit while communism has given equal chances when done right even in the extremes, so yeah, you're correct in that area :D
 @DK-im8ky  if done ideally? communism yeah, a perfectly done version of extreme communism would be infinitely better than a perfectly done version of extreme capitalism, but extreme communism has far more room for errors sadly.
​ @80s_graffiti Really? So the people of NK can own property and operate businesses as they see fit?
One side's life is so sad they don't want to live the other side's life is so stressful that they don't want to live.
Weird, it almost seems like the profit motive is a perverse incentive which prioritises capital accumulation above all else, that corporations acting greedy is an inherent feature of the system and that hyper focusing on individuals and corporations at the top and presenting them as simply being bad actors is missing the forest for the trees, which only ends up preventing people from viewing the incentives that the system itself creates in order to elevate these individuals to the top, but that would be an anti-capitalist perspective to have, which is apparently bad
Yep, it's a feature in modern capitalism especially late stage capitalism, which is more or less feels like serfdom. Sure the economy grows but the people are poor to the point where even having kids and having a wife at home to take care of them is a luxury. Without kids being raised properly, societies start breaking down as strong families make strong societies
​ @Унмеито  I agree, it's insane. With technology evolving and with workers being replaced, it will only make things harder for the general public while the corpos get richer and richer
@Pt08020  at least in my country, large corporations, and the government seeks to mass import a lot of foreign labor, especially Indian labor to essentially replace a lot of STEM Jobs. They're doing this since they can work for long hours for much less even if the quality is worse. Americans, on the other hand expect great benefits for working that long and don't like when corporations abuse them. At the core of it, it's largely the government and the corporations fault since they want to prioritize gaining money even if it ruins the country or breeds more resentment
So I guess y’all want to go back to tribes or anarchy I guess
The irony of quoting "Anarcho-Corprotist" shite is lost on some folk. Apple Anarchy 😂
Man, cyberpunk was really fun tbh but it got a bad rap because console nerds couldn't play it. I remember playing it for like 8 hours day one then seeing all the negativity. Only minor issues on PC.
 @bruhbruhhh6592  Nah I have the PS5 version and it runs just fine.   I had the PS4 version at first and it was definitely shit. Kept glitching in the first main mission , kept trapping me in a room with no way to open the doors because the “open” prompt would never activate
 @Shwethway98  im sorry but do you think we had tribes or anarchy a few hundred years ago? or even less?
 @emiloguechoons9030 yeah it’s almost like profit being the only or top incentive to do anything is a bad idea that literally destroys itself. But that’s anti capitalist and I’m just poor lol.   It’s actually insane behavior. I’m not even against capitalism but some things should be done or shouldn’t be done solely for profit.   Some things should be done for the benefit of society
Let me correct that: society is built on collective shared human misery. Nothing is for free.
Innovation also feeds on human misery. So does a lot of other positive stuff, like wanting to do better for your kids than your parents did for you. Feeding on misery isn’t as bad as feeding misery. But that’s probably what the quote was meant to say
 @boad8270  "im sorry but do you think we had tribes or anarchy a few hundred years ago?" You think last century with the biggest tribes at the end of the age of empires and world wars wasn't the most anarchy we've ever seen?? Killing millions of your enemy or your enemy killing tens of millions of their own . . . Yeah it was too much in too short a time then compared to most of history for me. People today still got the mud hut and goat, come to see what we got and say no thanks. Probably have to go back 1000 years to Genghis Khan, mountain of skulls or destroying a city and moving a rive on top of it to wash it away from history. His tribe was the 'biggest' empire ever yet people barely got rid of the British the empire on which the sun never sets. Seems more recent to barely have China get back Hong Kong only 3 decades ago. Japanese empire and the bad blood with Koreans. Have we finally had those that lived it die out yet??? That is how close the history you are talking about is. One life ago. After that was a button and a nuclear Mexican standoff. lol Now people don't care about the button anymore so maybe convention warfare will be back.
 @Andizu1  you have no idea what plastic surgery is, do you?
I don't disagree, but there are better ways to express your opinions. Do you know about ordinary citizens, even where you live?
@futurehofer1564  I do. And I agree that plastic surgery is rampant in South Korea. But the statement of it being required for a high function is ignorant conjecture at best.
 @Shoegaze- you’re looking at the issue like it‘s so simple and without negative aspects
@安迪祖1 But it does have a connection, like a symbol of the urban elite
youre acting as if this is somehow a bad thing. we as people should strive for greatness. being highly educated and attractive are two traits that indicate discipline and mental fortitude. as far as i see it, a strict education system weeds out the lazy and brings light to strong individuals.
An inhibited capitalist system is supported by marketing. Generating profits is the most important so they create new trends and customs. Plastic surgery and looksism is just a symptom of a widespread campaign to convince people they can't succeed without certain products and procedures. Taking under consideration the monopoly of few rich families, nepotism amongst the wealthiest is probably an everyday occurrence, making it seem like it was the appearance that disqualified other more talented but common people. Additionally, I really dislike the use of "this country" because it's the reality of every capitalist country that has no serious labor law protection in place. The US doesn't have a few capitalist dynasties but the wealth there is inherited or accumulated by kids of rich people who were granted "modest loans" by their parents to make it happen. Unless someone is rich, exceptionally attractive or smart, they're doomed to a difficult and challenging existence where their life is dictated by a boss who doesn't even have to pay a liveable wage. You know South Korea from sensational stories that are presented as alien problems but the reality is that these problems are common because monopoly is the nature of business. No competition means power, and to destroy your competition is the first commandment. About the looksism, look at the Ozmpc hype and the whole wellness industry that promotes desperate fight against biological processes as healthy self-care. I worked as a TikTok moderator for Central European and North American markets. Small kids, not teens, were posting their 13-step anti-aging routines and were concerned about their weight and "style". It's all the same, it's just that South Korea is more foreign to you, so you're unable to pinpoint similarities, and there are around hundreds. The whole for profit education or medical system, cosmetic surgeries and treatments, plus the cosmetic industry didn't develop out of nowhere. People have always been very arbitrary towards beauty since it signalized status or were supposed to reflect someone's behavior and personality (🤨we know what I'm talking about), but it's the capitalism on steroids that brought it into the new era. No regulations or protections mean that entire generations are being brainwashed. You can see it in practice by checking out the weight loss industry marketing from the past to the present. It's very interesting and exemplifies how much of contemporary standards were shaped by campaigns designed to convince entire groups of people to buy certain products.
​ @Shoegaze- learn enough Minsky to learn the difference between credentials and productivity. Or just worship the hierarchy while our civilization collapses.
 @Andizu1  the people in power come from people in power. the average citizen is not born into power like they are.
and the country's so glorified too along with japan (and the social issues they have too that people rarely talk about, the country's still great tho) while china is getting all the negative hate. its really scary how extremists the views are on east asian countries
@Sen7channel  okay? Not sure if you're reacting to the right comment here because I never said anything to the contrary of your statement.
What country can u hold a high position without being highly educated lmao
@ everything has negative aspects op was the one making insane claims without backing and zero nuance. But yea lookism exists in every country its a good thing that plastic surgery is normalized in SK so people can escape the judgement.  It’s an incredibly silly thing to act like a country being highly academic is a bad thing and i think most of SKs issues with academics and work come from confucianism and how it interacts with capitalism but that is way too simplistic although its a little more nuanced than “academic country bad” and “impossible get power without plastic surgery”
Until you begin to measure fish by how well they climb trees​ @themasculinemachine 
​@AamuAurora  holy moly this is perhaps the most intelligent, eloquent, knowledgeable writing I've seen in YouTube......
When you think about it that way, everything about Korea makes sense.
@ how long until you’ll have an argument?? yknow what adults do lol.
 @futurehofer1564  Hey I wanna laugh too. What did he say ? What'd he say ?!
 @KarlMao  you are talking about the book? how is it related to it?
What's wrong with that? People who look pretty and well-educated are the best.
 @themasculinemachine yeah sure, surgery and physical traits you’re born with shows great effort and discipline.  And sure, it works out great for them, that’s why we hear about celebrities taking their own lives every 5 days over there. Not even counting regular civilians.
I'm tired of these kinds of ridiculous rumors. Less than 0.1% of the entire Korean population has undergone plastic surgery.  Of course, if you add up the number of procedures performed at dermatologists, the number will increase. Things like laser treatment, hair removal, and eyebrow tattooing. In fact, there are far more foreigners receiving plastic surgery in Korea than Koreans. It's more than twice that.
The vagueness does help distribute the blame across the corporate image and stifles the public's imagination and ability perceive individuals who are wrong. I think even this goes for ideology too, people will blame capitalism but not look at specific CEO's and individuals working behind the curtains of these big corps.
Gotta love dodge v ford for giving us that luxury. Doesn't matter how many CEOs you axe when the law mandates you literally break the law because paying fines is slightly more profitable than following it.
That’s why when something goes with the Tesla for example, people blame Elon Musk since he is associated with the company. But if the CEO wasn’t famous and didn’t have a PR, it would be just Tesla. But Tesla has a face whcih is Elon.
​@shore1001 I mean we're talking talking about Elon Musk the treatment of many employees are a reflection of his character
Something something English Common Law, corporate veil and business is an individual who can make legal transactions.
The CEO of a major company just got murked in the US, not all can hide behind their logos
It's the nameless, faceless ones that you got to worry about.
The names are pretty prominently displayed if you read past the headlines 😂
 @callowaysutton  No, they are not, at least not in any meaningful or consistent way. Shallow as your observation may be, I presume you’re referring to the few high-profile figures like Elon Musk, the head of the CIA, or the owner of Facebook. Sure, their names occasionally grace headlines, but let’s be honest—save for right leaning individuals like Musk or Trump, they’re rarely the focal point when it comes to the criminal activities happening under their leadership. These actions, often the direct result of their decisions or policies, are conveniently framed as systemic issues or blamed on lower-level scapegoats. Accountability, it seems, stops at the door of those who hold the most power and benefit the most from these misdeeds, and the mainstream media is evidently their allies.
well the thing about that is it doesn't actually matter who the individuals are, the problem is systemic. you can fire every ceo today and replace them, and even if every single one unanimously decided that they'd try and do what's best for the greater good, you'd still have stories like these eventually, because the incentives at play are not in service to the greater good.
why isnt it easy lol, stop watching the mainstream media...then you can tell.
The big difference in the US (and the rest of the west) is the publicly traded company, which has a veneer of disposable leaders and board members who provide the day to day management of the companies while major hereditary shareholders are further shielded from responsibility, fame and accountability for the companies they largely secretly control.
 @baa9223  Yes but that guy was specifically sought out. If that hadn't happened no average person would be familiar with any health insurance CEO
​ @baa9223  especially if it's easy to get a name from looking up said company. Don't know how much harder it is to get the name of shareholders though.
For publicly traded companies it usually won’t make sense to tie a face to a company. Most founders are dead or long retired. Anyone can become CEO of google/alphabet but there’s only one Elon musk or Marc Zuckerberg.
Billionaires my dude. There's nothing vague about it after this election.
Corporations will always behave the same way - profit comes before humanity. For this reason, it makes no sense to fight with individuals. We must fight the whole system - capitalism.
It’s mainly because the examples you use have a lot of “owners” or people in charge lol. When you have lots of investors, the “face” of the company becomes a lot less clear. It’s not one person or group in power in most big corporations. Counter example: Tesla and Elon musk. If Tesla were to do something to cause public outrage, it would specifically be aimed at Elon musk. Same goes for CEO owners, you just don’t hear about it as much because the big newsworthy companies all have shareholders (because taking investments is the fastest way to grow a company to that size).   As for agencies, the leaders also change, and even if we held the leaders personally accountable, people would just think they’re just using patsies as leaders and that we should punish the agency as a whole. Instead we just don’t punish anyone unfortunately.
even good ole TJ warned of banks and corporations yet the only thing people seem to want to do is head towards "solutions" that are inherently worse that "never been tried before" because it wasn't "real" that time around
In the western business model, responsability is shared by the company itself, by a board, by shareholders, by switching CEOs and what not, but even if they were held directly responsible for something they would never be punished like that. The S.Korean system is certainly extreme, but damn the sanctions are extreme too. 15 years for corruption, 5 served? Prison for bribes and the like? Sure, the pardons for the powerful are certainly convenient, but the original sentences are harsher than what some rapists and direct manslaughter gets you. Very corrupt, very controlling, but when caught, very harsh sanctions on a few. While probably a lot of others with some responsabilities get away. Then pardon, but still those served more than many in western countries would have.  I'm not saying one system is better or worse, but either way the rich and powerful just always gets away with much. Look at things like the Opioid crisis, the numbers make those Korean scandals look tame. It was clearly intentional and premeditated, clearly just for profit. Is anyone serving a day in prison? Hell no, it's the company that gets into a civil lawsuit for damages and fines, instead of a criminal trial. Then the family company just happens to go bankrupt without paying the damages, but somehow the family is still very rich. Fraud, withheld research, lobbying and disinformation leading to the death of many can be found in many sectors, like obviously the Tobacco industry back in the day, the Automobile industry, etc  It's all pretty dystopian if you look hard enough.
근데 나는 한국이 일종의 디스토피아가 맞다고는 생각한다. 왜냐면 한국의 사회는 너무 피폐하고 국민의 수준이 너무 피폐하니까.      내가 살면서 봐온 모든 한국내 커뮤니티, 온라인 상의 대부분은  혐오를 가지고있고 국내외 가리지 않는다는 거다.     이게 모든 통계로  나타나는데 이게 어떻게 디스토피아가 아닐까
​ @Pokermand  지금 인터넷보급된 나라들은 전부 갈라치기 혐오컨텐츠 양산중인데 뭔ㅋㅋ 걍 인터넷의 익명성의 의한 시대의 흐름인거임 이런게 싫으면 어디 인터넷없는곳이라도 찾아가서 살던가
 @Pokermand  음...reddit 4chan은 안그럽니까? 제가 당장 영어로 된 영상들을 유튜브에서 자주보는편인데, 댓글들 보면 비꼬는건 세계적으로 똑같던데. 시대가 혐오의 시대로 흘러가는건 안타깝지만, 그건 비단 한국만의 문젠 아니죠. 그냥 당신을 포함한 사람들은 한국을 무시하는걸 즐기는거에요. 요즘 이런 영상들 참 많더라고요. 저번엔 한국학생들이 하루 18시간 공부한다는 말도 안되는 소리를 하는 영상도 있던데...이거도 혐오의 시대이기에 나오는 현상이라 생각해요. 뭐..다른나라를 무시해야 만족을 얻는 사람들이 있단건 안타깝지만, 제 인생이 아니기에 제가 어떤 조치를 취할 순 없네요
ㅋㅋ동감임. 외국인들은 생각보다 선동이 잘 되나 봐... 안타까울 뿐임. 한국을 저렇게 생각한다는게...
Write in English and inform the non-Korean audiance. I suspected this video might be BS when it was revealed that the one responsible for the horrible incident in the beginning was just an American fraud who exploited gullible people.
 @Carl-p3e7z  영어를 읽는건 잘 하지만, 영어를 써서 남들에게 알려주는건 잘 못해서 한국어로 썼어요. 어차피 전 그들을 설득시킬 생각이없어요. 제가 영어로 쓰더라도 대다수는 믿지 않을거에요. 이미 다른 한국인분들이 영어로 써도, 사람들은 안믿더라고요. 믿고싶은대로 믿는거죠. 전 그냥, 선동당한 사람들이 불쌍하다고 생각할 뿐이에요.
 @Pokermand  그런 논리로라면 피폐하지 않은 나라가 어딨고 전세계 모든 나라가 디스토피아인가요...? 그리고 도대체 무슨 통계가 나타난다는건지 혐오 범죄는 미국을 비롯한 서구 선진국에서 한국보다 훨 많이 발생하는데요? 애초에 외국인들 보라고 자극적인 제목 컨텐츠 만들어내서 업로드한 영상을 한국인이 비난은 못할망정 외국인이 말한다는 이유로 옳다고 동조나 하고 있으니.. 이 상황이 디스토피아 같긴 하네요.
Nothing new -- U don't think so because U R Korean, and that's how you make Korea so. The fact U don't think UR country is dystopian, is the reason why other people are not Korean culturally, and why they don't  really want to b.
 @Jasonyisun  전 한국문화가 싫어 외국에서의 취업을 준비중이기에, 한국을 옹호할 필요가 없습니다. 비이성적인 사람들을 비판하는것 뿐입니다. 해상교통사고와 재벌이 무슨 관계가 있는지 설명해보세요. 절대 논리적으로 답변 못하실걸요?
People like to treat some extreme situations as the norm. As a Chinese person, when watching videos related to China, I feel the same way as you.
 @lsxu149  Chinese and Koreans have a lot of things they don't like about each other, but as this video shows, they also have a lot of misunderstandings. I hope the relationship between China and Korea will get better.
 @Dneonczm  The mutual dislike between China and South Korea mainly lies in some trivial aspects, with no real hatred. There were also close relations at some points in the last few decades, but it's very difficult to recreate them,  cuz it's about America.
I've only been to Korea a handful of times, so I can’t say I know it inside out, but from an outsider's perspective, I wouldn’t call it dystopian—more like depressing. Somewhere between all the technological and economic advancements, the old Joseon-Confucian mindset still lingers. People feel the need to maintain face through designer status symbols, there's this strong collectivist culture, and everyone seems to have FOMO. That’s probably why it comes off as "dystopian," but I think "depressin" is the word for it—though people who live there (South korea) probably don’t see it that way. I grew up in the Italian towns and the Swiss Alps, so going to Korea is so damning different. I love the food, the beauty, and the tech, but I don’t feel the same warmth or community vibe I get back home.
밖에 무장경찰이 돌아다니면서 사람감시하는게 디스토피아지  커뮤가 음지라고 디스토피아냐? 적어도 대놓고 약탈하는것도 없는데ㅣ
​ @ouioui9284 이영상을 만든사람이 이렇게라도 설명해주면 좋겟는데  사실 한국에서도 유럽의 비관적인 영상이 많이 나옵니다 난민문제 제조업 악화로 인한 경제및 물가 대란  어딜가나 자극적인게 문제겟죠
I noticed no one responded to you yet: but I agree. They raked the police for their "failure" as if President Yoon wasn't the issue, as he migrated to Yongsan from the blue house. I was present during the crush, and it was brutal. It wasn't until after I realized the police were short staffed due to his insistence on having expansive police at Yongsan instead of Itaewon less than a mile away. Shame indeed.
 @SecroduzTV  "Officers from South Korea’s Corruption Investigation Office for High-ranking Officials (CIO) attempted to execute an arrest warrant for impeached President Yoon Suk Yeol early Friday but were blocked by military personnel serving under the Presidential Security Service (PSS), according to Yonhap News Agency.  The incident unfolded at Yoon’s residence, where the military unit presumed to be from the 55th Security Brigade was reportedly deployed to block the warrant against Yoon, escalating tensions surrounding this unprecedented step against a sitting president, Yonhap wrote on Friday."  Do you reckon there will be a clash and civil war
@ConnorLonergan Yoon himself probably won't be able to walk free because there is no chaebol willing to free him. after all, why would they? it's not like they've been found to have any connections with his stupid actions. Yoon isn't powerful, important, or even smart enough for any chaebol to save him. what use would he be? everyone hates him already and any chaebol willing to free him would also risk their company shares. Yoon would probably get something a little more serious, but wouldn't be able to be fully prosecuted for his whole list of crimes.
책임있는 사람들 중 제대로 처벌 받은 사람 없습니다 교수형을 받은 사람도 없습니다 뻔뻔하게 잘살고 있어요
 @loopy-q1h  Haha, there seems to be a misunderstanding. Korean chaebols don’t directly participate in politics. In the 1990s, Hyundai's chairman Chung Ju-yung directly entered politics after democratization, forming his own party and running for president. However, he failed spectacularly and faced severe retaliation from the subsequent government. In the end, his son, Chung Se-young, had to go to the ruling party's headquarters, kneel, and beg for forgiveness.  Chaebols are not just ordinary corporations. These are companies that grew under the direct support and favor of the government, starting from the military regimes of the 1970s. Of course, the entrepreneurs worked hard themselves, but in return, they had to provide support to the regime—whether publicly or privately.  And what happened if they ignored this relationship or displeased the government? They disappeared. In the 1980s, the Kukje Group, the 7th largest company in Korea at the time, was forcibly dismantled by the government. The shocking reason? They didn’t pay enough tribute to Chun Doo-hwan and his wife.  This is how the regime nurtured the chaebols, and the chaebols, in turn, paid their dues to the regime. And this relationship didn’t fundamentally change even after democratization—it just became somewhat less toxic.
The guy life sentenced was the captain of the ferry. He announced not to move in cabins. And escaped first.
Exactly! Westerners need to understand this - the same is true for Russia
At least in feudalism your lord had some responsibility and accountability towards you. The post modern corporate aristocracy wants all the homage, fame, and wealth of feudal lordship but none of the responsibility, accountability, honor, or generosity. In medieval times nobles were expected to put their wealth on the line for their country and to improve their community. Many of the major post modern corporations are anything but that
I feel like putting previos comments in context: neoliberalism, the korean people (as well as all other countries in the world to different degrees) have voted themselves to this kind of dystopia, funny that those very few countries in the world that are TRYING (to different degrees) to get rid of neoliberalism fall under "leftist/populist/progressive" or even "communist" tags (depending on whom you ask). Feudalism, nepotism, neoliberalism.
 @GiveBackAll  Russia's oligarchy has a bit different character because of the Soviet Union. But Korea went straight from feudalism to capitalism.
 @Zugetzu seriously where are these people living in the U.S? We’re in a second gilded age today it’s dystopian af right outside your door not some distant land
the issue is a lot of places had industrialism put into place faster than the culture could keep up with. the only places that really escaped this were the united states, the united kingdom and its auxillaries, and most of western europe, all of which industrialized over 5-6 generations over centuries of time. industrialism still has had its issues in these cultures but compared to how a lot of southeast asia has industrialized in less than 2 generations even and the growing pains have become very clear
 @roderickclerk5904  i unfortunately doubt honor and generosity were universal forays during feudalism. responsibility yes.
Feudalism is a society of kings and classes. It's like a dictatorship ruled by Xi Jinping and the Communist Party's privileged class. Japan is still not considered a fully democratic society, even though democracy was instilled in the U.S. military and Japan adopted a British parliamentary cabinet system. Few countries in Asia are more democratic and people conscious than Korea
the problem, my dear friend, is that we are all in a feudalism that we just can't see  peasants in the medieval were very ignorant of affairs of nobles  tell me what do you know about the affairs of the billionaires, really? do you have any idea what games they play and what are the rules? I for one don't know where to look for answers to that question.
 @GiveBackAll  Russia isn't feudalist but it is definitely an Oligarchy, South Korea would be more feudalist though since families will often hog land, companies, buildings for generations and build tiny empires. That being said, the US is definitely also partly oligarchic though not to the same degree as Russia.
 @tomsnowden6201  No, we are just bad in a different way. I think maybe Feudalism would be preferable to Robber Barons and wokism - at least it is clearer who is in power. Still, it is important to distinguish between the two, since any attempt at a solution must deal with the root.
Aye- the social and economic structure have essentially remained the same  Only the mechanism has changed from royalty to capitalism   Especially when it comes to the classism, this normalized dehumanization of people in a lower position than you etc etc
 @dysmissme7343  Care to explain to why? A simple "LOL" response comes off as ignorant to me
@GiveBackAll The main difference being South Korea is functional while Russia is dysfunctional.
 @Mr.Kimchi-1  If you were taught world history in the American school system, allow me to apologize for the failure of my country. I recommend you look up feudalism in Japan - it's very interesting.
What I got from the video was that it’s not only the individual wealth but Samsung’s impact on the whole economy that truly puts him above the law. His true value for the country seems even higher than any US billionaire. Not saying they aren’t above plenty of laws too though.
 @user-ws6nu4mq8k that’s definitely the important part lol. Besides, the video was relating influence to their impact on economic growth, not the worth of their assets, so estimated wealth means nothing really here. But yeah, there’s no American “oligarchs” that are as impactful to the economy as Samsung is in South Korea. And the companies that are most impactful are usually divided up into many shareholders, not held by one family/person.
not the same. The fact that S.K is directly depended on Samsung at this level is the issue. Its like if NASA wasn't there but only space X existed then you would have seen the power of elon musk but its multiple times more in S.K
 @prajyotkumar9644  Guy has never heard of Blackrock and Vanguard. Lee Jae Yong served almost a year of prison time.
You don’t have to lol epsten, eyes wide sht, adenocrme etc….it’s all in the open
there's a lot more rich people in america so they have to share the power vs just a few families in Korea
They are also above the law, but nobody speaks about it :)
I lost all my childhood friends to this incident. We all grew up in the same neighborhood and we we’re all supposed to go to highschool together. Luckily i immigrated to the US with my family. I miss them
I'm south korean and living outside of it showed how much of it is controlled by few monopolies and the reliance of them from the country scares me.
America is very similar to South Korea. Only difference is that the companies that own all of America are well hidden to the public.
No one talks about this. Why? Kpop and Kdrama distract everyone from the dystopia of Korea
The government incompetence in the ferry event can not be overstated. The passengers could have been rescued if anyone acted in the good of the victims.
I think the comment section is very interesting. As a German-Korean growing up in Germany but now living in korea to see the differences in the comments. The English comments are mostly talking about how bad everything seems but the Korean comments all disagree with the video saying that some of the thing said in the video have no evidence. Every Korean comment I found is hating the video and not agreeing which I think is a little crazy. I am Korean too but I noticed how other Koreans are very aggressive when somebody is talking about negative topics regarding korea.
It's crazy how good animations are packed into a YouTube video. I love these animations they just keep getting better.
If arasaka from cyberpunk ever becomes real then it will be called Samsung
Hmm.. Korea is definitely not a perfectly good country, but from a Korean point of view, the logical connection of the video is a little unnatural
You made a great overview about how powerful the Chaebols are in South Korea but there's one detail right in the end of the video where you say that "South Korean scrubble to be employed by the Chaebols" thats correct but in my opinion that barely scratches the surface on this subject in regards to the influence the Chaebols have on South Korean society   Basically South Korean parents force long hours of studying and extra studying on their children with the intention to make them have high enough scores so they can one day be employed by the Chaebols and ofcourse this means that those children oftentimes are left with very little free time if any at all and even if you get employed by the Chaebols then things are not always better because overwork is very common and in turn work related suicide in South Korea is the highest in the world even surpassing Japan!
The fact that 100k people stood outside just to protect one guy... that's impressive. They better be receiving some benefits for that relationship, else it's outright stupidity.
The fate of all democratic societies. Just like Aristotle said, it devolves into a shadow oligarchy.
I lived in South Korea for 4 months. Everyone has Samsung phones. But at least to me, most notably, you see Lotte Corporation everywhere from apartments (Lotte Castle), cinemas, fast food (Lotteria), liquor stores, malls, hotels, amusement parks, mascots, chocolate, towels, napkins, you name it, they probably have a hand in it. And it’s not just here and there. It’s in every corner. And that’s just the stuff you see. They also own various chemical companies, baseball teams, and other companies.  A few conglomerates basically own the country (like Lotte and Samsung), but it’s normal to them. The U.S. is heading there, if it’s not there already.
The art direction, the 3D graphics, the storytelling, even the sponsor sequence is top-notched. Hands down the best Youtube video I've seen in months!
President Park was entirely responsible for the Sewol ferry disaster, she blocked all coastguard action, turned away US and Japanese ships offering assistance, and basically watched as the ferry capcised in slow motion. RottenMango has a good video on the disaster.
"Profit over safety" I think that's the world we live in.  Not just South Korea. But every major corp? I haven't done any research on this.
Switched one dystopian hellhole for the other, tbh. Brace yourselves. I left the US 15 years ago and don't regret.
@orwellianyoutube8978 Where do you live now? I want to compare it to Korea in terms of crime and safety, life expectancy, healthcare quality etc
did you also have a facial surgery to enlarge your eyes?
​ @HyunaTheHyena I moved to the Netherlands and it has been a really good improvement comparing it to the US. Not even close tbh. I feel safe here, as violent crime is rare. Mostly its just petty crime like bike theft etc. The quality of life is high, work life balance is good, people stay active and don't worry walking or biking home at night, but I am a guy, so its probably easier for me to say this. Healthcare is great too. Its not free, but insurrance is affordable and covers allot, especially for me coming from the US. Plus the care feels personal and they focus on prevention instead of trying to get as much money out of you as they can. No country is perfect, but the Netherlands is miles ahead in terms of quality of life than the US and I am way happier now than I ever was in the dystopian nightmare I lived through in the US.
💔💔💔💔💔I am so sorry. Sending you so much love. Praying for your healing in Jesus name.  I know that is really hard. Do you struggle with survivor’s remorse? Sending you so much love.
 @passionable90  why does anything have to be wrong with him. Dont hate the player, hate the game. Isnt it the most common surgery they do, the country with the highest plastic surgery rate in the world? Practically all the celebs do it. I dont think theres a single cast member in the top 20 important characters of squid game season 2 who hasnt done it.
 @reformedtoxic1488  asking that under a comment of somebody's friends dying is disrespectful in case you didn't know
​ @rishisaini5269 she is not lucky. Lucky means that she didn't lose her friends. You are lucky.
 @dinem4624  Yeah,that's unfortunate but compared to other Koreans,she is still very lucky.
I’m from Utah, and 22 but my Grandpa who was from Kentucky was a Korean War Veteran who fought the Chinese and North Koreans in the Korean War. He was wounded and got frostbite, but I have his photos of him in Military tents in North Korea with his guys and some photos of villages too and we have his Bayonet. RIP Grandpa Stines 🇺🇸🦅
 @jerryjerry7163  no i didnt. It was offered to me as a middle school graduation gift but I declined. I like the way I look :)
 @alanparks3402  well the US is the only other thing I know. Ive never lived anywhere else other than US and Korea
 @reformedtoxic1488  heyyo no need to argue, I did not do double eyelid surgery. I learned to love the way I look. It was offered to me as a middle school graduation gift but I declined
 @cannabislife1688  thank you to you and your Grandpa for his service and your story. We really wouldn’t have made it as a country without the support of the US. Allies till the end 👍
 @LilyBobaeKim  lol that last sentence is absolutely wild and it conveys much more than saying yes woudl have. Oml. Ty for the insight. It must be as common as getting a drivers licence. I knew I was right.
So sorry for your loss may God give you power to deal with it.
​ @lixiehearts  you know, that amount of respect is gone already as you can see
⁠​⁠ @reformedtoxic1488 Because the person is ASSUMING that the commenter had eyelid surgeries? Why the hell did he even bring up the topic of plastic surgery. I get that a lot of Koreans get plastic surgery, but asking koreans if they got plastic surgery (when they haven’t) is really weird and it gets to a point. I’m Korean with natural double eyelids and i’m sick of hearing questions like that. That comment is also rooted in harmful stereotypes, she might just have big eyes from the genetics she inherited. Whether or not she has done procedures it’s still weird to ask someone that.
But S. Korea living standard is better than the majority of Southeast Asian nations and China.
Its the theme of the eastern asian countries honestly. Taiwan, Japan, etc
It definitely is quite concerning how if those companies fail, the entire country's economy can collapse in an instant
 @baribari1000  I mean yes more developed countries usually have a worse birthrate, your point being?
​ @baribari1000 it is true that south koreans have a relatively much better living standard than most of asia.  korean modern history, statics and culture isn't to be taken at face value. because the entire 20th century for korea was 35 years of harsh colonisation, a giant war that essentially broke even a basically medieval society into absolute pieces, and then decades worth of harsh dictatorship. before all of that they had about 600 years of a unified, isolated dynasty that declared itself as the sole guardian of confucianism.  All of that isn't going to mix well and obviously not present a direct answer to why something in korea is exactly because of what.
 @Kadokk12  this isnt just more educated = less kids. It is heinously expensive to have a child in south korea, and the material conditions in which most people live are also not NEAR enough to be able to sustain an extra life. several factors contribute to this (housing market, "after-school academies", etc).
What Korea calls chaebol, we call it corruption over here in Europe.
 @jonaspete  I'd put Korea on par with or worse than China in standard of living. Both countries' big cities are incredibly developed but whose rural areas are basically 2nd world countries. China has the benefit of cheaper goods and housing. Freedom of speech is an issue in China but most locals are unlikely to run into problems with it.
What if chaebols were required to mirror a democratic govt (legislative board with multiple corporate goal parties elected by shareholders [including citizens if that big] to make bylaws, executive board to make policy, c-suite to carry out policy, and judicial board to check that bylaws and policies conform to the charter and bylaws of the company as well as to the national law?
 @Commander.Starfleet  It doesn't change the fundamental problem. Corporations have a motive to maximize profit, while governments ideally have a motive to serve their citizens. In both collective structures, partaking individuals are easily corrupted to serve their own motives (maximize personal wealth) over the interests of the collective. Since corporations are much more powerful than the government in Korea, they can corrupt the government to make structural changes that benefit the corporations, at the expense of the government's fundamental purpose of benefiting citizens. (It happens in other countries too, to varying degrees.) By making corporations more democratic, they would just have a different, more transparent and probably less efficient structure to pursue the same goal of maximizing profit.  Self-policing to enforce national law just won't work due to a fundamental conflict of interest: those people are paid by the corporation, and self-policing is in the way of making more money.
Yeah yet you never question Nestle's logic or Coca cola or Aramco or Pfizer. Samsung is a mere shit level pawn in the conglomerate power game. Go look at ANY one of the fortune 500 companies and check their business model. If you have enough competency to even figure out a small part of it you get what I mean.
 @jonaspete  Yeah, cuz you'll need a higher living standard to handle all that work, ain't no way ur doing anything in S. Korea than working.
 @jonaspete  You are kidding, look it up yourself, how many Koreans go to china every year for work, travel, and even live.
So what ? Do you think things will get better if big companies disappear? They pay a lot of taxes to the Korean government and offer many jobs. The problem is that there should be more big companies
 @jonaspete  that does not detract from the problem skorea face at hand and their impending decline
 @jonaspete  If you judge that South Korea is better than China solely based on per capita GDP, I have nothing to say. However, in terms of living conditions in major cities, China is much better in many aspects. By comparison, South Korea appears relatively lacking in resources and materials.
 @jonaspete  how is it better than China? You know China has megacities right lol. South Korea has the 4th highest suicide rate in the world, only following countries with tiny populations and poor countries. I don't think the living standard is 'better' than most countries.
 @thistamndypo  Exactly! People LOVE to throw China out meanwhile not knowing anything about the country itself. Lazy af
 @jonaspete  shame on ur sea colonial mindset to think all the northern countries are the best. shame.
Agreed. There is a reason why those who can afford to live abroad want this for their children.
These corporations are owned by a very diverse group of shareholders. To think of them as being one family or entity is kind of pointless
 @joleh6077  Then why are there fewer Koreans moving abroad for this reason than before when there's more money now
​ @jonaspete SEA yeah sure but China has better living standards nowadays unless you say 20 years ago
I'm American and lived in Korea for many years. My impression is that most Koreans dislike Chaebols yet the whole country seems to be prepping kids to head toward that 'dream'. The seeming contradiction irked me. The GDP contribution of Samsung makes the contradiction much easier to understand. Samsung accounts for roughly 25% of Korea's GDP. Scary indeed.
 @jonaspete if you think korea today has better living standards than china then you’re completely wrong. (I have lived in both China and Korea)
 @thistamndypo  I am Korean and I lived in the countryside of Korea. The countryside is not a better infrastructure than the city, but the standard of living is not low. Rather, it becomes difficult to find poor people in the countryside.
​ @thistamndypo 하다하다 중국 시골이랑 한국 시골을 비교하네 ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ 한국에는 중국 시골동네 같은 곳이 없어
squid game DOES talk about the entire wage gap and the illusion of choice in South Korea. The fact that people (ahem, mrbeast) made replicas of squid game is just further proving it's point by ignoring the theme of the show.
After the show came out they really went totally against the message of the show.
​ @nanacue  the fact that squid game become a commercial product from different brands, and a reality show kind of hypocritical of them honestly... for me squid game failed its messaging through what I would call "fun games that people dies in fun ways", to me best fiction conveying the wage gap is Parasite, that film has way lesser deaths but they are way more impactful, brutal and scarier, it doesn't have dumbass action scenes or cartoonishly evil rich people. The rich is actually can be nice because the rich has the option of being nice is really good message.
and the movie parasite. both products of the situation in south korea
Now I understand why is The City a thing.  Ayin, take us.
​@SpassMacher2000 It would work if there was actually free market capitalism to check each other so they can't rig the system and write legislation to pick winners/losers and prevent compensation.  Seems both countries have the same problem. The merchant class shouldn't be running everything,  especially when it is married to the beurocracy class. Even worse,  the beurocracy class actually picks/creates some of these big companies like the alphabet Corp ( through a dark money program I can't even name) because they are so concerned with other countries getting an advantage.  It's hard to believe it all started because the SU sent one little metal sphere into space that caused the paranoia of the millenia.  It wasn't even the nukes.
Yea, south Korean like to make movies and shows about it but they never tried to fix it in reality 😂 good entertainment tho
 @eo0-g9j  "Capital has the ability to subsume all critiques into itself. Even those who would critique capital end up reinforcing it instead." -Joyce Messier, Disco Elysium
​ @JannetFenix  Chaebol = Wing The best art is always a reflection of the reality.
It’s actually inspired by “The Brother’s Home” internment camp in South Korea!
당신은 다른 나라들이 더 낫다는 것을 깨닫지 못합니다. 당신은 미국이나 독일이 어떤지 본 적이 없습니다.
I'm Korean and you're right but most far-right side is the same but I like most Japanese.
 @pon-m3b  일본은 한자를 사용하지만 한국은 한자도 버려서 문해력, 어휘력은 계속 추락하는 중
Ask yourself to which ethnicity they all belong too. You owe this answer to yourself
Follow the 13F filings, the 13Gs, the 10qs. Then look at where all the cash and property plant and equipment is sitting then look at the market cap and you’ll see, corporations run America.
​ @arachnid4910 lol blackrock owns  companies on behalf of millions of americans
Blackrock, Vanguard, any and all military profiteers... Healthcare   Also Alphabet, Meta, Amazon...
​@Black_Ace14  "tesla", elon musk legit walks at the white house to help out the goverment😂
 @jefferyjeff7132  Yeah but it's hard to picture the extent of their reach, even for economists. Common folks are purposefully clueless.
​ @Black_Ace14 I wish I could be this ignorant. It must be nice living in a fantasy where America isn't a global corporate empire masquerading as a mid-level democracy.
Blackrock is the modern JP Morgan…The world thought he owned the US economy but when he passed away we discovered that his personal wealth was minuscule. He was a front
 @Mast_Kalandar  maybe because SK is currently going through some kind of existential crisis…
Everyone know who they are but they don’t dare to say it…
its not that hidden, elon musk has shown very publicly how easy it is to gain political control with money in the US.
yes. then you take another step or two back, and realize some other things.
Not as much as you'd think. The biggest company by revenue in the US, Walmart, only comprises about 2.4% of GDP. Samsung is a staggering 22%. The US has some enormous companies, sure, but it has such an enormous economy you can fit so many of them in and still have plenty of room for everyone else. In SK, the Chaebols and mini-Chaebols pretty much are the economy, to the point where the collective value of everyone else barely matters.
 @shacoxdd if merely owning Twitter/X alone granted you all this power then why wasn’t Jack Dorsey at the side of Biden or Obama? Elon for better or worse accomplishes more with his brash personality and vision than money itself.
Community Notes: So you mean entire industries own America not just one company. Also the CEO of United Healthcare is NOT Jewish and many CEO is Indian, Chinese-American, Protestant.
 @AdamBorseti  look at their profits/revenue. Then look at our tech companies
No the main difference is the lack of antitrust legislation in South Korea. We think the US is bad, but one company accounting for half of all economic growth is absolute insanity. South Korea's economy is more reliant on Samsung than Saudi Arabia is on petroleum lmao
"Never before has there been so much concentration of ownership, sector after sector, power of Wall Street. And never before in American history — and we better talk about this — have the people on top had so much political power. We can’t go around the world saying, ‘Oh, well, you know, in Russia Putin has an oligarchy.’ Well, we got our oligarchy here too.” - Bernie Sanders, December 2024
 @Croz89  Yet our government treats them like they're Korea and Samsung.
Bro billionares go to jail regularly here. Look at Sam Bankman fried.
Not even close lol go study economics before commenting on it
 @thedownunderverse  YouTube won't allow me to text it, but lemme give you a hint. There is a famous proverb say: "They hit while crying in pain".
​ @jefferyjeff7132 no no, they were virtually unknown by the every man until 4 years ago. Some documentaries going viral around that time brought them to prominence
​ @Butcho22 if you could say why he's wrong you would have written it. You didn't because you can't.
​ @Ruddline Most of those industries are owned by Blackrock. More importantly, AIPAC literally decides who becomes president in your country.
Ummm, no. No company in America is that large relative to GDP and none of them have that much influence over the government. There is also much less dynastic control over US businesses as big businesses come and go relatively quickly.
not only distract, it spirals people into believing SK is the perfect country, its incredible the amount of young children and teens who want to migrate to korea just because of Kpop or Kdramas
I would argue that if you dig deep enough on how Kpop actually operates, it wakes you up. My disgust with the way things are run in South Korea actually started from Kpop. Stopped listening to it when I realised their musicians are literal slaves.
They are trying to communicate it all the time, for example look at the popular squid game, on a deeper level it showing the tragic condition of south korean society
 @Lacerta_Viridis  . People like me watch shows from other countries to get a small glimpse of their culture. Same reason why people watch shows like Friends and dont think NYC is full of white people living in million dollar lofts.  Also people travel to korea because its still a fun place to visit even if you dont listen to their music.
​​ @Jaykmane Whats so fun about it? All I see of people making videos there, is that it looks just like any other western city, but with Korean language everywhere.  Kinda like most big cities people travel to. What's the point? The actual culture is hidden in smaller places that barely anyone ever visits.
If you wanna know more about the airline incident, there’s a kdrama called “ queen maker “ totally recommend
It doesn’t distract at all lol. The people that are really into kpop and kdramas aren’t the ones who would care even if it’s talked about. They just idolize Asian culture, they aren’t activists. Don’t count on them to be aware or be helpful lol. You’re looking at the wrong demographic
Lol @gabriel.hongkong why don't you talk about Taiwan being a country or tiananmen square
 @Lacerta_Viridis  I feel like squid game does a very good job of representing this societal difference and how corrupt it really is
 @moe3252  i was just thinking about this too. I loved how they covered it in the drama. Although now i'm seeing how kdramas romanticize chaebol dramas and we eat it up when in reality its a serious situation
Or MAYBE, because it is not true and has no basis in facts.
I actually learn about this thanks to K dramas XD but yeah they always end up on a good note (with bad ppl behind bars) or romanticize it (most romantic dramas) 💀💀💀 and yeah obviously it’s their tactic XD
What do you think SM or YG are? Of course there's a bunch more companies now, but those 2 were the OG, and the real OG was SM. Evil as well, check out their 90's docu.
Well I find kDrama here and there which kinda reflects the corruption of SK.
It's like how tourism to gulf countries is popular but the actual countries have terrible human rights records. Though when Arabs do it it's that this has been a perpetual thing but Korea has only recently had these conditions.
The government literally uses kpop/kdrama as a way of propaganda. It really is dystopian.
K-pop and how they’re treated to maintain an image is what had me look into S.K more deeper and found this all out years ago .. crazy depression quite a few other issues going on over there
K-pop is what had me look deeper into S.K   There’s a lot of drepression and other social issues going on over there nevermind these Tech Royals doing as they please
 @Dutchyman if you actually went to any country that is known for their culture, you would know their culture is almost everywhere.
all sports remember when you couldn’t be policial in sports a few years ago .. then Ukraine and few other things happened … but the Arsenal player got sidelined before lockdown for calling out China and “reeducation” camps ….
What did u say? Sry, u will have my attention in a sec, have just to finish buying this Squid Game merchandise.
@teevee23  who said I'm saying they're anti democracy. I'm simply stating that at least korea can talk about these issues where as China cannot. One sounds a lot better than the other and highlights the original comments hypocriticism.
People who are rich gain the power. What's wrong with that? Absolutely normal.
그래봤자 팩트는 한국 삶의 질은 전세계 최상위권임 ㅋㅋ 디스토피아 같은 소리 백날해봤자 전세계 어디나 상류층 썩어빠진건 똑같지 어차피 서민들은 체감도 안되고
Dumb question: is “ferry” pronounced the same as “fairy”? English was not my first language but I was always taught that berry, bury, and Barry are pronounced different lol was I taught wrong?
​ @CantTellYou there is a difference but it ends up being very subtle and washed up in different kinds of accents. For example Australia and British accents place more difference between them but for where I'm from (america) the difference between "fairy" and "ferry" are indistinguishable
 @CantTellYou  Fairy is pronounced "Fair-ree" like "dairy" so there's an "r" sound at the end of the first syllable. Ferry is pronounced "feh-ree" like "berry" so no "r" at the end of the first syllable. Also "feh-ree" has a shorter first syllable. So fairy like dairy/hairy/Mary, ferry like berry/merry/cherry.
People should not be fooled by malicious evil pretending to be incompetent or ignorant.
 @dancefroggodance  uhhh all those words rhyme and are pronounced the same lol
Very true. How heartless to just film when kids are drowning right in front of them! 😢
Thats bc this thing is political to Koreans. PPP, the right wing party is advocate of megacorps and Democratic Party (left wing) is not. Especially it is a very politically chaotic period in Korea now, far-right and far-left factions are rising after the martial law,  riots are happening, and people are divided into two. People are striving to defend their values and since old righ-wing citizens have a lot of time, they are writing comments in videos like this.
I’m south korean and i think korea is having a hard time. dollar exchange rate is too high it’s almost high as 97 korean bankruptcy and no one wants to buy korean stocks. Politicians don't care about the economy at all. They are just fight each other
I don’t think so. There’s 41 companies that are larger than Samsung by market cap. It would definitely be Apple, Microsoft, Google, Meta or maybe Tencent
 @braedenaudlin2692  those companies don't have the same level of government involvement as Samsung does, it's a culture thing over there if you watch edgerunners and they say how you need to join arasaka academy to have a shot at life it's the same for Koreans and Samsung
 @braedenaudlin2692  The difference is that if Apple, Google, Meta, etc. executives were convicted of fraud on the scale that Samsung does consistently, they would be toppled quickly. Companies in the US hold massive power but no where near the level of Samsung, literally in this video it goes over the fact that the CEO was convicted of fraud and corruption and was then pardoned.... that is insane.
​ @braedenaudlin2692 Don't forget Nvidia, their pivot away from gaming towards cloud computing and AI made them the largest company in the world for a reason. And while AI is still in its infancy it's only a matter of time until we realize it's full potential.
 @braedenaudlin2692  sure but there will prob not be an arasaka in the US, since the sheer size of the economy will prob lead to an economy still not as concentrated. But if we look at which country will have it's own arasake the first at least, it'll prob be SK with samsung
 @callumsmith4773  the fact that you think this shows how untrue it is.  google just succeeded on the largest data mining operation in the history of the world with pokemon go, using users to privately map the entire united states.  meanwhile their ai continues to accelerate its capabilities.  they also have insane lobbying capabilities.  how is it different?
Arasaka was inspired by Samsung and the other chaebols. If you watched the cyberpunk anime u remember the Arasaka university which is based on Samsung’s UniverSE
@sayidmartinez7347  if anything black rock is more like mr blue eyes and night corp
If Arasaka would be real it would be more like Toyota
From my point of view, your “Korean point of view” doesn’t represent the ENTIRE Korean point of view on the video. You are just one out of 50 million South Koreans. Explain “How” the logical connection of the video is unnatural to a typical Korean point of view instead of just saying superficial things like, “From a Korean point of view.”   I see that you are trying to add credibility to your superficial evaluation, “logical connection… little unnatural…” for the foreign viewers of the video simply by saying, “from a Korean point of view.”   PS  I too am Korean.
 @Eugene-wd9jf  Honestly, you could replace this video with that of any other developed country on Earth and it would still be accurate. I don't think this is a Korean only problem.
 @RentChizuruMizuhara  yea, and that’s exactly how Korean film Parasite won the Best Picture of Oscar and also was very popular all over the world. It was praised and won precisely because it resonated deeply with the global   audience and similar problems of the Korean society depicted in the movie also existed all over the world.   The concept and the word “Jaebol” was not introduced to the western world until Samsung, Hyundai, LG became a major force in the global economy. 10 years ago or so, Western newspaper like “Economist” began introducing the meaning and the concept of the word “Jaebol” to its audience because its nature is quite unique that such does not exist in USA or Western World but is very very very influential and “powerful” in Korea as well as in the World.   So the “problems” of the video may be common in other developed nations but it is unique that it involves “Jaebol.” Come on… if American comes to Korea and sees “Hyundai Apartment. Hyundai building tanks. Samsung Insurance. LG Chemicals,” it will certainly be one of “unique” features of Korea and the video exactly digs deeper into how such organization is strong and influential in the Korea society. And this is the point of focus of the video.   No nation is perfect. Similar problems can be discovered in other developed countries, even though Korea being number 1 or 2 in suicidal rate among OECD nations is certainly not common… As much as Korea is getting so so so much attention and praise based on its “positive” culture like its k pop, movies and dramas, language, ecc, more interested and curious foreigners will be drawn to other aspects of Korea and soon it is inevitable that they also learn about other parts of Korea that also has negative culture just as bad as their country.   Now that Korea is well known, influential, and relevant all over the world, Koreans shouldn’t be naive that only “good” part of Korea should/would be known and exposed to the foreigners. We can’t control that. Any attempt to control that is called censorship and is one of the key policies of China, North Korea, and past dictator regimes of South Korea.
​ @Eugene-wd9jf  Yeah as an American we have tons of issues many other nations don't have, but it is unheard off for a company to branch off into so many sectors.  If a company is too big it gets broken into multiple smaller companies.  The closest to this is Amazon but if they get too big they will be broken up by the government.  Instead in america we have company cartels, where a handful of companies work together gain control of patents to exclude others from entering a business sector.  Like how insulin costs very little to produce but only a few can produce it, leading to very high costs.
This is so tragic. I'm just really curious and I would really appreciate your reply....why do the parents not encourage the kids to use that knowledge to start their own businesses and take down the conglomerates?....to bring a change.
⁠​⁠​⁠ @angelawessels its because of education system for long time korea had cramming education which cause limitation of creativiness or courage to start a new business And koreans tend to avoid vagueness and failure society criticize other’s failure alot That’s why parents force to study and go on a ‘safe’ path (nice university-nice jobs like doctor, big company-successful marrige-nice education for their child)
Why not encourage them to set up their own business or bring innovation to the natiom not to just one company
Furthermore, lookism is widespread in this country and has become a huge problem. Most celebrities need plastic surgery, and I've heard that if the general public doesn't look good after plastic surgery, they'll be at a disadvantage when it comes to finding employment.
​@haschwalth-ts8rb we see this with Trump as well, it's crazy that people blindly follow people who actively screw them.
Some would have benifits, but I also think it's their "stupidity" cover more than half of them. Well, I think it's more "I am right and others are wrong. No one can deny this" sort of thing.
​ @eyyy2271  Trump, who was the first President in over 40 years to not have a new major war start during their term, who brought insanely low inflation, a safe and secure border with record low illegal border crossings, lower grocery and gas prices, had an average home price of $75k compared to now where the average home price is over $120k, and had record low unemployment? Yeah ok dude 😂
What shadow oligarchy, everyone knows the names of these oligarchs and worships them.
 @quitlife9279  lol This term is probably more suited for USA than for S.K
Can only devolve into an Oligarchy when u have the all the resources in the hands of the very few. It's not different from why Monarchs had so much power, they had all the resources.
so ur saying that you would rather live in north korea than the U.S.? At least democracy is better than dictatorship.
The U.S. is supposed to be a democratic *Republic*.  Not a pure democracy.  We have a code of rules that exist regardless of how people vote, so the majority cannot simply violate that code just because they voted that way.  That is how it is supposed to be, anyway.
Yet, there is no democratic form of government in the world.
South Korea never was democratic in the first place. You just confuse democracy with liberal capitalism (as most do) and S.Korea wasn't even that.
 @BenRover-m4s   It's the same dictatorship (of financial elites) in US, there's just more money and technologies in there with no outside economic blockade, unlike N.Korea. If US took off its blockade and let N.Korea to use its full economic potential I would hands down choose the latter one to live.  Even right now I prefer to live in my third-world country than to move into US (I have such opportunity).
How would that even benefit her though? I just don't see why she'd have a reason to do that
 @mic2348  it was speculated that it was a cult sacrifice, as the daughter of a shamanistic cult leader who was among Park’s closest confidantes was revealed to have orchestrated government policy. This is a popular conspiracy because the day of the tragedy happened on the 20th anniversary of the death of her father
Probably simply she felt ashamed if other nations helped and she couldn’t anything, believing her PR looks bad
 @OmniscientReadr  you could just do the research online. I am also no expert in conspiracies and Korean politics.
This video was an experiment with a different format/style. Let me know if you would like to see me do more of them.   P.S.: Feeling so blessed to have eyes like Hugh Grant.
as a born and raised Korean, 'having the worst mix of Confucianism and capitalism' is the most on-point statement of Korean society
Can you please create Korean subtitles for this video so Koreans can watch it? Im a korean and i would love to have my parents watch this. This was so helpful. Thank you so much, Mark!!!
I taught in Korea for four months, when I quit I told my boss I’m not suicidal yet but this place is definitely pushing me in that direction. My boss responded “be strong, think of what you’re doing to the company, many people live in this city. Why are you special?” Also my students were more burned out at 14 then anyone I’ve ever met outside korea.
I live in Ethiopia, I have worked with several Korens and most are older and whenever I point out these problems they tend to be defensive and avoid the conversation. It is a good start that the younger generation is aware of the issues.
I made Korean friends when they came over to the UK to study postgraduate law at a prestigious university. When we started getting our grades back, they were HORRIFIED not to get 100%, and I had to explain many times that no UK professor would even give 100% so chill and after a while, they did relax. They were the most gorgeous people ever, and I grew to love them very much, and I miss each and every one of them ❤
The alarming suicide rate among seniors really got me. How absolutely heartbreaking.
This content is GOLD, Mark. I was born and raised in Korea, and I was one of those kids who cry after getting 90 out of 100 on an exam. I think the biggest problem is that we’re made too busy and obsessed with achieving the stereotypical success to care about anything else. Most schools, parents, and media don’t talk about mental health, so we’re simply oblivious to the state of our mental health. We don’t even know we’re depressed.
This is Why I left Korea. I am 100% Korean but I've been living in Australia for 10 years now. My most regret is that I went to Korean University. It was a waste of money. Korea is fun and enjoyable but only for having a time off or just for short travel. In a long term, I will rather live in Australia with people having better mental health and happiness. Life is short and I don't think you should be living in a condition like that. My only hope is that I wish more younger generation Koreans travel to lots of other countries and see and think more widely. DO NOT get stuck on one small little country. Be open minded and travel.
I’m a genZ that lives in South K and this video really means a lot to me. Thank you so much for making this video.
I'm Korean. "If you get your shit together, you don't have to suffer from depression or anxiety" - that's what my mom told me all my life, being depressed herself for decades.
As a Korean reaching 60, I feel that one of the biggest problems with Korea's education system is the intense pressure placed on students. From age 5-6 to until 19, they are focused solely on entering one of the top universities (SKY). While doing so, almost everyone tells these kids that entering a good university will guarantee them a prosperous and happy life, with good money, a good job, and even success in dating. However, the reality is much different. Once they enter university, the competition continues – to get into good companies, land well-paying jobs... it's an endless cycle of competition and comparison with friends, family members, colleagues, and neighbors. I believe this trend will continue for at least another 10-15 years, until the older generation retires. While Korea is in a transitional period, I fear things will get worse before they get better.  Instead of everyone striving to become "someone" special, we need to understand that it's okay to fail, to be average, and to simply be normal. Young people need to be freed from the constant pressure and unrealistic expectations imposed by parents, society, and the media.
I lived in Korea for a little over seven years, teaching for the EPIK Program. From my first year, I saw all the signs of a country emotionally and psychologically going downhill, and there were already issues with the younger generation being financially insecure. I did the best I could as an English teacher and told them that the best I can do is teach them English so that they would at least have one other choice to leave the country if they couldn't take it anymore. My time there was rough. There were a lot of great times, but it was mostly rough.
The Kpop group BTS released  a MV called N.O years ago about students and the harsh school system in Korea. It's well done and gives a voice to the youth. The leader of the group RM explained, that he was one of the top students in Korea but decided to be a rapper. His mom threw his computer and mic away because she wasn't pleased about his decision. And it's true. The people starts getting depressed in early age also because of the school system. They're taught to be always the best and to be the most successful. This is the most important thing for them. Another thing they're focused is the Korean beauty standarts. People that doesn't fit theses standarts are bullied or not successful no matter how good their grades are.
Despite putting in hard work and graduating from a university in Seoul, I felt defeated by the high barriers to employment, leading to the development of depression and anxiety, which I am currently undergoing treatment for. I watched the video with deep empathy as someone going through similar struggles.  While receiving psychiatric therapy, the disheartening view from my parents, perceiving me as a weak and disappointing individual, along with their harsh words, and the ongoing job failures, make each day of job preparation a struggle. I find myself lacking the motivation to continue, feeling helpless, and overwhelmed with thoughts of wanting to end my life.  Amidst this, I'm glad to have come across a video that explains these reasons. Although thoughts of suicide haven't completely vanished, the guilt of being deemed useless by society and achieving disappointing results has slightly lessened. Just realizing that my situation is, in fact, a societal responsibility provides significant comfort.
ㅋㅋㅋㅋ중간에 정신과 의사들 아이스 브레이킹 한답시고 외모평가부터 하고보는... 진짜 한국은 저게 문제입니다. 저런것만 그만해도 사람들 사는데 훨씬 행복해 질거예요... 칭찬한거니까 괜찮다 그럴텐데 외모칭찬도 얼평입니다..그리고 앞부분은 은근슬쩍 욕했잖앜ㅋㅋ음습한 사람들..
This video is really amazing and so touching. I am Korean and I lived in another country for several years. My explanation to this emotional and mental crisis of Korea is a long lasting PTSD prevailing in the entire country, which is passing down several generations. As you said in the video, it started by Japanese colonization and Korean war. Everyone who survived, veterans, victims and their family and friends, was actually half way dead in the situation. There was no love, no friendship, no justice left, and they even laught at it when someone talks about things that don't make you survive. This might permanently damaged the brains of all of the people. Children grown up under those mentally injured parents learn the same traits, merciless competition and survival. I am the third generation after the war. My parents were not mentally healthy (for me to see), and that was because of the grandparents. My grand father was physically (and also mentally...) disabled, because he was sent to WWII and forced to work. Many of his neighbors and relatives couldn't come back. I was told that my grand father used to beat my grand mother a lot, and also the kids. At that time there was no word for PTSD, and he was seen as a normal person because everyone else was doing the same. I can say he was not mentally healthy based on current standards, but people like him was so many at that time. My fathers generation did enormous amount of hard work because they were living in the fear. 'Getting 100 or fail' kind of mindset is to survive in the fearful surrounding world. It is inherited PTSD. I say I am also affected. My family and friends are the same. I realized it when I interacted with American freinds, but Korean people in Korea just cannot recognize it. I agree with the Korean psychologist in the video. She said it is promising. I also see it is slowly being healed. The scar was made during about 40 years of period, but it will take much more time to cure, more than 100 years. We are half way there.
영상 보다가 양브로님들이 마크 맨슨님을 앉혀두고 K-외모평가를 시전하시는 부분 보고 놀랐습니다. 한국을 살기 힘들게 만드는 것이 바로 개인에 대한 바운더리를 쉽게 넘나드는 것이고 그중 대표적인 현상이 외모평가를 쉽게 하는 문화라고 생각하는데요, 마치 시연이라도 하시듯 그것을 하시는 게 보기 좋지 않았습니다. 다른 사람들도 아니고 정신과 의사분들이 그러시니 무척이나 놀랐습니다. 아무리 끝이 칭찬으로 끝났을지라도 무례하게 보였습니다. 저 분들도 나름 우리나라를 정신적으로 풍요롭게 하려고 노력하시는 분들인데도 한국의 큰 문화적 분위기에 스며든 것은 거스를 수 없는 걸까요. 여러가지 생각이 드는 장면이었습니다.
I am a Korean in my 50s. I read an introduction to this video in a newspaper article. There is no major financial shortage, but I have always lived with guilt and anxiety. I've thought it was entirely my personal responsibility, but I've come to understand that there are parts that come from the structure of society. It's a little comforting. The story about the resilience of the closing part was touching. Thank you.
I couldn't decide wether I was looking at a high-level production documentary or a Mark Manson video. The bit at the end showed me that this crossover definitely kicks ass. Loved this format!
I liked it a lot and I am definitely down for more Markumentaries if you are enjoying making them
I loved it! Thank you! I’d watch more of these mini docos!!
I think this is a very great video you did. Cannot wait to see more of it. Best wishes from Germany!
Loved the new format Mark ❤ Keep up the good work!
Hi Mark. You say that Koreans have given up the best parts of capitalism: individualism and self expression. But then you say they are dominating in the arts. Isn’t self expression a big part of creating art? Not clear about these contradictory statements
Mark, I LOVED it, keep up the good work, you are a gift, my friend.
Loved it! I'm inspired by your findings and your perspective. And of course, by the Koreans.
Reality TV always feels staged and corny to me, so the videos in that style that you've been doing up until now have not resonated with me, especially since authenticity is really central to your brand. This more documentary-style video, in contrast, was a real pleasure to watch, and I'd love to see more like them. Well done!
Hey Mark, is MrMarkManson also your yt handle or is it a scam?  I was just asked to have a discussion with you in a different platform
Right length, right points, right pace and entertaining as well…do more
Please do more of these! I’m always inspired by what you do. Keep it up ❤
Great video Mark. I think your books should be required reading for all college students in Korea. They could really use an outsider's perspective on life and finding meaning and purpose. Hope you are able to find time to go back to Korea and do another video there. Their decreasing population and world's lowest fertility rate topic is in itself worthy of a mini-documentary. And send Hugh Grant to the Yang Brothers next time.
Loved it. In the words of Jimin from BTS 'you good, keep going' lol 💜and please do more on Korea if possible, my favourite place. It is so underrated, I really want the world to see how amazing Korea is. 👏👏👏
Yes, please, I thought it was different from other videos I saw about South Korea, I think it would be great to see more analyses like this
I like this format the best. This is awesome! Less frequent videos but more indepth is the way to go along with shorts.
Lmao In Korea, it's quite common to compliment someone by saying they look similar to a celebrity. Generally good looking ones. I can definitely see how weird it could come across for many foreigners haha.
Mark, I love it! a little break from self-development videos :)
I think that as person who is so well traveled, you have a perspective that none of the rest of us mortals have.  You make stray connections that the rest of us never knew alligned.  Most importantly you come at it from construct of mental health dissecting good vs. bad.  I think it's very useful to perceive the world through those lense.  I work a lot with a director of a homeless day shelter. I wanted to do 365 days of YouTube podcasting with him demystifying homelessness to people.  It's decoding for people what lays in the darkness, fear of the unknown.  When things are nebulous, they can't quite wrap their heads around it; it becomes too great of a learning curve then it's a subject that people don't broach.  I think that travel is mysterious because there are so many layers but I truly value the way you approach it because with your background, you have an incredible keen insight that narrowly focuses on the molecular when the rest of us is just trying to figure out the periphery.  Whatever you add comes from a place that truly resonates with the rest of us.  I'm so, so, so glad that you are valuing life and having fun after the slump of selling a best-selling book and asking yourself, "Now what?"  I'm just immensely grateful that you're doing this.  I think it's your legacy, leaving a generation of people better than you found it.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for all your efforts.  We truly appreciate the wisdom that you impart because it makes our lives a more beautiful place to reside.  With gratitude,  Betty
We definitely would like to see more of these condensed information rich, visually pleasant mini docu-films. I am glad you covered Korea first. A country that hosted me for a decade, a second home ❤
Mark, you've hit the nail on the head with new format, it's fantastic! There's a little bit of everything in it, the editing is top notch, and it's really interesting to watch. So yes, please do more of this format!
This had to be take a lot of preparation and passion to make, and it shows. Great work and thanks so much for this cross-section of korean society, I absolutely love the Koreans, and particularly southeners had a unpredictable trajectory
Definitely keep 'em coming! You've traveled to so many interesting places, would love to see more docs on your travels!
I appreciate that you use  “fuck”a lot (derivaties)I feel like we understand each other😂
Hey, my bad. Sometimes we just size people up without any harm intended—it's kind of a thing in Korean culture too. Living in NY, I get taken aback when they start commenting on your looks.
Thanks for the Korean subtitles! One change small change: 18:31 당신의 상사가 화요일 밤에 똥같은 얼굴을 하고 싶다면, >> 당신 상사가 화요일밤에 술에 떡이 되고 싶으시다면 18:33 당신은 화요일 밤에 똥같은 얼굴을 하러 가야 합니다. >> 당신도 어쩔수 없이 회식에 끌려 나가야 합니다. contained a rather literal translation of "shit-looking-faced" that doesn't really convey the meaning of "getting drunk." The Korean idiomatic phrase "wants to turn into a wine-marinated-rice-cake" has a similar meaning here. I translated the second line to convey that you're dragged out the "team dinner" without a way out.
22:46 이것이 한국의 초강대국이었다는 것입니다. >> 이것이 한국이 이미 지니고 있던 큰힘이 아닐까 생각합니다. "superpower" was translated as if it was a "global superpower." So translated into "big strength"
23:41 - 난 상관 안 해. >> 전.. 신경 끄기로 했어요. Changed from "I don't care" to match the Korean title of your book: "I ... decided to 'shut off my nerves'" which is also idiomatically a perfect response to your question.
This was an awesome video, great editing and storytelling. Please do more!
It's been a lot time since I've had a pleasure to watch/read your content, because I took seriously the article you've wrote on your site long time ago, about consuming self-improvement material becoming an addiction. I'm really greatful to the algorithm for recommending me this video. It's really good. I think the part about Confucianism was very simplified, so, yeah, it'll be nice to see a deeper discussion. It was great to see you again, feels like an old friend ) Thank you for your articles and books, they do help.
I love this format. Please make more videos like this on different countries
Absolutely yes more like this! I rarely watch such long videos but kept coming back to finish this.
Dude, this content is fucking great! It feels a little Discovery channel, so I personally wouldn't want to see this format for every video. Maybe every 4th or 5th video. But you honestly kill it at this format. Thanks
Strongly prefer this format. Great storytelling. I watched the whole thing - typically I don't watch through your more monologue-style videos. This one felt like it had more heart.
I felt purely original and directed to it's core purpose. Kinda like Castelvania season 1. 10/10.
I loved this format , its so creative dude. Especially at the end , the korean psychiatrist was too lovely hahahaha
❤ Loved the format! Would binge the whole channel for this kind of content
it was a total hit man. keep it, i love it, the other videos didn't got me that good. its very clear also the huge work you did here, very nice. congrats
Documentaries are a search for facts. Sorry, but there's a need to proofread the facts. Take, for example, the incorrect testimony of the first dude. No gaming consoles? As a Korean who grew up in Korea during the 80s and 90s, Japanese games and comics were central to our hobbies and joys.PC cafe, then what about Manga cafe?? Japanese arcade games were everywhere in Korea. It's the first time I've heard that they were banned in Korea… But yes, S.Korea is one of the most depressed places for Living. Traveling Korea is super fun! love to watch this documentary video!. Just please check double check some facts. Thank you for your simple & great insight.
Just out of curiosity, what motivated you and get out of your studio to go Korea all of sudden?
Born and raised in Seoul. It is not true that we didn't have any Nintendo or Final Fantasy. It was a big thing in Korea too. The analysis in the video by the commentator guy is so so so wrong.
As always, knocked it out of the park! More content like this please, very informative and fun to watch. Love from Texas 💚
lol, i'm east asian and half korean but grew up in a western country. objectively, hugh grant's better looking and the only similarity is that both your eyes are blue. maybe you do look better in person.  also, it's not that the interview got weird. it's kind of korean humour that they were venturing into. can be a lost in translation thing because sounds funnier in korean than translated into english.
Amazing video, absolute FIRE of an intro  I couldn't watch it when I first saw the video, but the intro led me to save it for later, and the content made me stay
I loved this video, you should do more videos with this style of filmmaking
 @tyyg9469  Huge difference between a country of 50 million people and a few dozen K-Pop stars.
LOVED this!! Thank you Mark! Your kind, thoughtful style pairs perfectly with humane historical documentary. Please do more 💛
these travel youtubers are so annoying - one of the most annoying on the internet
Loved the video,admire your work! I would prefer it not to be that fast at presentation.A lot of information,but so quick to assimilate.I know it's a must at videos nowadays,but I believe a video with content like this,should have more mild approach in order to fully enjoy it!
It is very arbitrary to simply attribute a complex social problem to the philosophical thought over 2,000 years ago， and it's also difficult for you to hear an objective explanation of Eastern thought from a Western person who produces popular videos but does not study Confucianism. I offer another perspective. First, let me state my conclusion: I believe that this is basically a social problem caused by economic reasons. Eastern Asian societies have basically become industrial societies only in recent decades, before which they were mostly in a closed agricultural civilization society. Confucian thought (here we are talking about the Confucian thought that has been castrated by the ruling class, and we will discuss it later) ran smoothly, and then they all encountered colonial aggression, which was the first collision between industrial civilization and agricultural civilization, as well as the collision between Eastern and Western cultures. The historical trend began to diverge from this point.  When Westerners colonized all over the world, there was no Internet, and there were almost no newspapers in the vast number of colonized countries. At that time, Western newspapers basically did not talk about condemnation of colonial behavior, oppression of women and minority groups, but which colony had wealth and gold. However, when Eastern Asian countries began to develop industrial civilization, the whole world was no longer in the colonial era. You could no longer get the first bucket of gold through plundering to allow future generations to live a high-welfare free life. So how could everyone have a good modern life? It is nothing more than through the initial efforts of one or even several generations, inventing new technologies and improving production efficiency. Therefore, this is basically a phenomenon of the dislocation of the development stages of Eastern and Western societies. Unfortunately, the life of an individual is too short in the context of history and too small in a society, without a God's perspective.  The original Confucianism indeed had a concept of hierarchy and emphasized rules, but this hierarchy was equivalent, that kind of absolute obedience of subordinates to superiors is just the Confucianism castrated by the ruling class later. I believe that this approach is almost similar to the Western establishment of Christianity as the orthodox ideology, just for the convenience of ruling. This topic is too long. Interestingly, Confucianism also has a thought that "仓廪实而知礼节,衣食足而知荣辱"(when the granaries are full, people know etiquette; when they have enough food and clothing, they know honor and disgrace), which coincides with the phenomenon that the West today, after being abundant in materials, knows the crimes of the colonial period and begins to criticize them.
That's a hard question! I loved this video and I love the raw style of your other videos. That being said, this is a fantastic production ❤
Loved it !! You should make videos about other countries as well !!
Thank you for your video, and you have such good insight for someone who just visited the country.  Yes, Koreans have resilience and they will always find some solution.  But to me, however it seems they cannot find a way to unify the country and move towards lasting peace. It's very stressful to a country when there's always a looming threat of war and to have something that resides in every South Korean or even North Koreans' collective unconsciousness. It's as if outside forces in the world want to keep the penninsula divided, to deny it from becoming a even greater national force.
I echo all those who would like to see more of this style!
​ @IAmMarkManson   Im korean If you were born in a country with advanced welfare and human rights like Canada or european developed countries, I can relate to this video...  But do the American people like you,  marred by all kinds of social problems and the sickness of jungle capitalism, really have the right to criticize Korea?
This is a great format!  Make more!  There needs to be a proper balance of individualism and group culture that can ultimately benefit each side.
​ @tyyg9469 I think there can be self expression that's a result of rigorous desire to be on the top but less about 'self'
This is my first time seeing your video, and I LOVE it. I didn't notice this comment, but I was thinking that this video is so well made, with great content. As a Korean, I appreciate your team for representing the current situation of Korea so well.
A lot of younger people in America and Korea are struggling with financial insecurity, relationships, and mental health, due to sociopolitical ongoing issues, particularly around the Covid era. Meaning, more recently. When you talk about others’ cultures & lifestyles, you shall explain with respect, caution, and accuracy. All the best.
That's ridiculous. Korea is one of the most fun, comfortable, and safe countries. When I was in another country, I was much more depressed, bored, and boring than in Korea
Are you an American? By your logic, isn't America the most depressing country? Isn't it one of the highest rates of sexual assault in the world, with more. than 100,000 deaths from drugs, tens of thousands from lack of medical care and tens of thousands from firearms? Isn't it one of the countries with the highest rates of sexual assault in the world, with rampant racial hate crimes and the highest gap between the rich and the poor in the OECD?
are you trying to really understand current Koreans for years now?? You should interview historians, psychologiests and politicians... DO you use the typical analysis like two Yangs... it is a frame. you need to get out of the frame for Asian things and Koreans..... You made huge mistakes from the beginning..  Please. Me? who? I do intercutlrual relations and cultural anthrroplogy background.  It is not that simple!!! Try to come back again and see more.  DO not use the informants who are not see the whole things..........they are also in the frame.
please do more of this. Go to more countries, or just in your area, same subject or other subjects, anything, make more serious and important videos like this.
Then, how many slaves made up of the total population in Joseon? "Academics estimate that about 40 percent of the Joseon population was about 10 million, or about 4 million slaves." Han Myeong-hoe, a famous minister in the early Joseon Dynasty, said, "One million of the public slaves are on the run."  So there was even a state agency called Jang 掌隷, which was in charge of arresting slaves or litigating slaves. In the Gyeongguk 典, which was created during the reign of King Seongjong, "One 賤則賤 is confirmed. In other words, the law stipulates that if one of the parents is a slave, the child becomes a slave as well."   What is the basis for Western researchers to treat slaves during the Joseon Dynasty as slaves?  "The most important rationale is that slaves during the Joseon Dynasty were sold, given, and inherited. In other words, slaves were treated like objects."   The Joseon Dynasty was an unprecedented country where its relatives were enslaved. According to the Annals of the Joseon Dynasty, half of the Japanese soldiers during the Japanese Invasion of Korea in 1592 were Joseon people, and in the Annals of the Joseon Dynasty, there is a record that it is worrisome that the people welcomed the Japanese soldiers rather than the Japanese soldiers.  Thanks to Yi Sun-shin, the Joseon people suffered from slavery for another 400 years.   Joseon was a poorest country in the 19th century, that is, 500 years after its foundation, it was only able to keep up with the economic power and production of Goryeo in the 13th century. "How can a country [Joseon] be so poor in this world? It is similar to a woman's poor house, so it is not easy to run a single progressive (鎭堡). I was very rich in the early days of Goryeo, but I don't know why our country is so poor."  『The Annals of Seonjo』 as of September 28, 38   Korean history from Gojoseon to Japan.  Sugihara, a professor who published "Japan's Bronze Age from Korea," said, "The Bronze Age came to Japan from 100 BC to AD50, the end of Korean Bronze Age society. In Japan, the Iron Age and the Bronze Age were handed down at the same time during the Yayoi period, and the Bronze Age was only used for ancestral rites, so it seems that it went straight to the Iron Age without going through the Bronze Age."  Around 100 BC – Ancient civilization began in Japan when Koreans landed with iron weapons in Japan, where primitive people in the Stone Age lived. Japanese history is the history of the Gaya Baekje Kingdom and the history of the Korean people   "High-tech science has proven historical truths that no one has ever told you. In other words, Koreans moved to Japan and founded the ancient civilization of Japan. Although traces of the Yayoi civilization, which ended Japan's primitive era and opened up an ancient society, appear throughout the Japanese mainland, it is widely accepted as orthodox that it originated in the northern part of Kyushu by the descendants. The study made it clear that the Yayoi people are descendants of people from the southern part of the Korean Peninsula."   The Chinese Han Chinese, along with Vietnam, were grouped in a different lineage, showing genetic differences from Koreans.  O2b: This type can be said to be the core of Koreans' unique Y chromosome. It accounts for 37.3 percent of Koreans, but is rarely found in China. O2b is mainly distributed in Japan (31.9 percent) and Manchu (3.8 percent) outside of the Korean Peninsula, so O2b can be said to be a unique gene of Koreans and Japanese people   "Chinese are cockroaches in the shape of humans"  - Hideki Tojo (Prime Minister of the Cabinet) -  Asked by a reporter, "Do you have any plans to incorporate Chinese into imperial citizens like Joseon?"   At the time of the annexation of Korea and Japan, the Japanese ruling class thought they were unified and granted equal rights to Koreans through an internal integration policy. In addition, a huge amount of 30 percent of Japan's total budget was poured every year for the modernization of Joseon.   There were many complaints from the Japanese at the time about the exploitation of Niigata rice to Joseon because of the lack of rice in Joseon.  The lives of Koreans have become so abundant that the population, which had remained at the level of 10 million without population growth for 600 years during the Joseon Dynasty, doubled during the Japanese colonial era.  "During the colonial period, Joseon's population grew by 12.6 million people, about 69 percent of whom, 8.7 million, were within the Korean Peninsula and 31 percent were flown to Manchuria and Japan."   There were more Japanese in Japanese Military Sexual Slavery. Japanese Military Sexual Slavery was a legitimate job that featured advertisements for Japanese Military Sexual Slaverys in newspapers. Pay and Japanese Koreans were equally paid more than Chinese. Forced labor was also much more Japanese, and it was a high-wage job with higher pay than doctors.  "The wages of Korean coal mine workers were 3.7 times higher than that of Japanese soldiers."   The independent army (Koreans who lived in Manchuria refer to them as the Marjeokdan) that was active in Manchuria was the Northeast Anti-Japanese Alliance, a partisan force under the Chinese Communist Party. As a coalition of the Korean Independence Army and the Chinese Ho-gun, many of them were communists who acquired Chinese nationality, and 339 of them were independence forces in association with the Chinese Communist Party.  On the other hand, at the end of World War II, there were more than 800,000 Korean Japanese military applicants, and the competition rate for enlistment exceeded 62:1. You can see how Koreans perceived Japan at that time   If Japan lost the Russo-Japanese War, all Koreans would be forced to move to Siberia and are now logging.  Both Taiwan and Southeast Asian countries are grateful to Japan. Malaysia's prime minister said he shed tears of joy as he watched British troops being driven away by Japanese troops, and Indonesia still pays tribute to Japanese soldiers every year. China and Korea are the only anti-Japanese countries in the world.   For the future of the Korean people, the Korea-Japan alliance should be strengthened and ultimately merged. The most feared thing among the pro-Chinese is the Korea-Japan alliance.   The north of the Great Wall was not Chinese territory. It was ruled by Mongols, Manchurians, and Koreans. Qin Shi Huang built the Great Wall to block the so-called Northern Orangkai. Later, China was conquered by the Jin Dynasty and Mongolia, founded by descendants of the god line Kim Ham-bo, and ruled by the Manchurians for 300 years after the Qing Dynasty. Manchurian Yuanryu Go (滿洲源流考), compiled during the Qianlong Emperor of the Qing Dynasty, also identifies the origin of the founder of the Golden Dynasty as Silla, and the national title of the Golden Dynasty also reveals that his surname originated from the last name of the Silla king.   The Gojoseon civilization predates the Yellow River civilization in China by 1,500 years. "The Gojoseon civilization, which appeared 5,000 years ago, was the third ancient civilization in the world after the Mesopotamian civilization (5,500 years ago) and the Egyptian civilization (5,100 years ago). It comprehensively summarizes the origins and birth of Gojoseon civilization, socioeconomic foundations and cultural characteristics, and the foundation, development, and dismantling of ancient countries."  About 12,000 years ago, when the ice age ended, people who started farming on the ancient Korean Peninsula below the 40th degree north latitude succeeded in cultivating rice and beans for the first time in the world. As a result of the Neolithic Agricultural Revolution, the number of groups living in the Namhangang and Geumgang basins increased significantly, and some of them moved to the north, where agriculture became possible. Those who were located in the east of the Liao River became Yejok (濊族), where tigers were totems, and those who crossed the west of the Liao River became Mac (族), where bears were totems.  Professor Shin argues that Gojoseon moved its capital to Liaodong 1,000 years later to absorb the Yejok, and expanded its territory east-west to build an ancient federal state spanning the Korean Peninsula, Manchuria, and coastal states.  He said, "The Korean, Ye, and Macs that led to the Korean people formed the center of Gojoseon, and nomadic peoples that were conquered and annexed, such as Eupru, Hun, Dolgol, and Mongolia, were surrounded."   The reason why Chinese scholars deny Gojoseon civilization is that Gojoseon civilization shakes the fabricated Chinese history by taking root
Don't use the word experiment loosely; it's a strict word that can be used when a number of conditions are met. What you did just looks like fun and it doesn't look serious.
When you use the word experiment, it's only when you follow a very strict set of rules.
It is mostly based on fears. Of being slaughtered during the wars. Of being casted out of the group or society, which immediately  could lead to isolation and perish. Of losing face .Of failure.Of being branded as bad for nothing. Every society is cruel on it's each term. The case with Korea,it is fear that dominates.People swallow their agony ,tears, pain and much more to run away from fear.
자신의 나라에서 벌어지는 범죄,마약,살인,강도는 전혀 얘기안하고.... 하루에 총기사고로 평균 133명씩 죽는 나라에서 사는 사람이 한국을 걱정하니....참 아이러니하네요..ㅋㅋㅋ  They never talk about the crime, drugs, murders, and robberies that take place in their own country... It's so ironic that a person who lives in a country where an average of 133 people die from gun accidents a day is worried about Korea... haha.
This format is very popular on my home country's YT (Russian) and just as I thought 'I wish there was similar content in English' (I live in the US), this baby comes out. Loved it, would be great to see similar content!!
 @IAmMarkManson  if it's only a few people, they aren't dominating in the arts like you said.
We’re gonna sue you for distortion of fact. and instill the prejudiced image to the people.  You don’t know Korea at all.
@ueckbueck Woop,, The girl group New Jeans + Black Pink + Red Velvet + Twice + ITZY + Kepler + wooah + LE SSERAFIM + BABYMONSTER and others are all natural beauties, and it's an old-fashioned prejudice to say that when some members of the Kpop group have plastic surgery.
Let’s be honest you haven’t read more than a few lines in any Confucianism books.  A little bit of Ruth Benedict probably. I’d happy to educate you if you have the modesty of a proper scholar.
Did Confucius judge people on their clothes and food? No. Quote from the Analects of Confucius:  A man who pursues the way but is ashamed of poor clothes and food, is not worth talking to. (士志於道，而恥惡衣惡食者，未足與議也)
Almost all just follow the animal world rules and discriminate minorities or wicker or other poor nations people and two standards between them and foreigners from poor countries
This was great! Every single word was insightful. And she’s great! Watched twice in a row.
당신이 우리나라에 대해서 뭘 알아서 우울한나라라고 하는거야! 웃기고있어 지금은 우리가 조금 힘든시기에 있지만 우리는 매우 정이많고 대한민국을 사랑해 그러는 너네 미국은 인종차별 심하잖아 반성해 그리고 전쟁하고 있는나라에 무기팔아먹고 양심도 없어 우리나라에서는 돈을 얼마를 가져가는거야? 우울 당신이 그럴말할 자격 없네요.
몇몇 한국 분들은 기분 나빠 보이시네요. 그중 몇은 영상을 끝까지 보지 않고 제목만 보고 댓글을 다는 것도 같습니다. 저는 이 영상에 깊이 위로 받았습니다.
As a Korean-American, I can say this film got to the point.  Well made film.
Thank you for this amazing video. I'm a 30 years old woman in Korea, and I've been thinking about this point for a long time, but I couldn't change something even so small in my life.  I was sad and exhausted and I felt sorry for other people who were depressed or despair in their lives. Anyone couldn’t stop  it, and I think the worst thing is we are loosing hopeness or expectation of the future. However, after I watched the video some good emotions came up in my heart from what you mentioned ‘~always find a way. I believe they will find a way’. Thank you for your good story telling🙌I hope we find a way!!
This was so great, can’t wait to see what you come up with next
Absolutely do more of these, please.  It would be cool to see a series on these issues in different countries and how they are either dealt with ( or not dealt with}. Cheers!
I loved to see you pitching Brilliant eating spicy food. They should ask for more videos from you!
Great video! Have you ever thought about traveling to Taiwan? Maybe the next video will be called "I Traveled to the Most Dangerous Country in the World" lol
Thank you for making this video. I am a korean living in the US for almost 30 years. This video made me look into myself if I am raising my children in a korea way which could lead them to depression. Your analysis seems very accurate to me and points are very well made!
The difference between condemnation and criticism is presenting an appropriate and deep alternative. Even elementary school students can find the problems you claim about Korea just by Googling Korean media articles. You don't speak Korean and have no understanding of Korean culture, so you only ridicule the problems and offer no alternatives. Seeing someone like a YouTuber with no respect for other cultures become a best-selling author clearly shows how crazy America is going. :)
Yes, more of this type of content. This is your most engaging and compelling video format, imo, both in terms of the content and storytelling itself, as well as the visually interesting video role, that's also at the same time coordinated with the storyline.
Thanks for the video. I want to watch this video on Netflix.
South Korea is not even close to being the most depressed country, a simple Google search debunks this guy's title. Sensationalism bordering on racism
 @tyyg9469  I guess it depends on how you define "dominating in the arts," but if you are talking about so-called K-pops or K-dramas, I would like to mention (although very carefully) that those are not creations based on self-expression. These are nothing more than mass-produced commodities invested by gigantic corporations like Samsung smartphones. It's an outcome of extreme efficiency in capitalism, not a masterpiece of fine arts. This means art is only valued if it makes proper profits in Korea.
 @tyyg9469  In addition, as Mark has already replied, there's a significant difference between a few artists and the rest of the people. Generally speaking, South Korea is not an ideal country to allow its citizens to express themselves freely in public. That's the reality, even though all those quasi-fabulous-looking K-culture distracts you.
I am third gen American of Korean descent. I taught at a high school in Korea many years ago. I have been saying the things in the video for many MANY years but nobody listened to me. This was a bit more than 10 years ago.  My parents having been born in the US raised me like many other kids in America. I had no idea my ancestral land kids grew up in this environment, and made me very empathic towards them.
I think that you should do this video based on the same theme for developing countries. I would surely love more of this thematic videos.🤞❤
 @dutchberry  absolutely agree with you. Born and raised in Korea. Now live in Canada. But this is very distorted documentary.
I was an ex- Hkonger, same competitive level at school & business, with the additional unsavoury political influence, there is an exodus of middle income families to other Western countries for better life 😢😢
Yeah, but it's better to be able to master the stare that Paddington Bear could pull off. Um, I hope you may have seen Hugh Grant's performance in Paddington Bear so you don't think I pulled that out of left field.
Thank you for your good opinion about our Korea. Korea needs help like this. Thanks.
I loved it and the ending was so sweet, I rather watch this than the vids with a direct focus on life advice.
I disagree that it is the worst of both confucianism and capitalism, there's two sides to every coin and there's a lot of people that display the best of both ideologies in this society. Family and community is something that comes pretty naturally here and hence doesn't need to be a goal because it's kind of just there and not something you have to put so much effort into.
Really enjoyed the video, thought provoking and an interesting view how different society’s shape the citizens. I would be interested in your take on Taiwan as well and Japan.
That was an amazing video it'll be awesome if you could do more of it! (forgive me if my english is not clear enough)
In the ancient Korea (Chaoxian朝鮮 , Real historical name - Chinese territory before 1910). It was two different ethnic groups. 1.Chinese (Han Ethnic)(Wear color and pattern clothes) - Ruler and nobleman  2. Korean (White Clothes Ethnic)( Wear white clothes without pattern) - Civilians and slaves    1. Ruler and nobleman (Goguryeo , Baekje, Silla , Goryeo, Joseon=Chaoxian朝鮮 ..): Chinese local officials and nobles (royal members, monks, scholars, soldiers, architects, technicians, and their families ...). They are Chinese (Han) and their descendants born in the local area. They have always wore China in China costumes. They speak Chinese language (official and Han dialect) and Chinese characters. They are Chinese officials and represent the Chinese emperor's governance of the ancient Korean Peninsula (朝鮮). Local Chinese officials (Chaoxian king朝鮮王)  and Chinese nobles in ancient Korea (Chaoxian 朝鮮-Chinese territory). They all Chinese clothes (hanfu), headdress (hat and crown), silk cloth (including embroidery), soldiers (such as: defensive clothing, horses). Weapons (including cannons), Chinese literature books (including Chinese history, Taoism Buddhism), Chinese special architectural materials (including palaces and design paintings). Food materials (Chinese food and Chinese royal food), wooden wheels used, large military ships, etc. are made from other cities in China).  Among them, the Chinese royal's (Chaoxian king /officials and nobles) Hanfu comes from Chinese han clothes, opera clothing, and hat crown headwear. Therefore, the fabric on the clothes is high -level. There are a large number of Chinese official dragon patterns and various traditional Chinese patterns (including Chinese characters) on the clothes.    2. Civilians and slaves (Goryeo, Joseon=Chaoxian朝鮮 ..only appeared in history after the 13th century): Civilians and slaves are indigenous Koreans (White Clothes Ethnic白衣民族). They speak Korean language. Long -term banned learning and use of Chinese characters 漢字(except a few descendants of mixed with Chinese people).  Korean people cannot use any pattern of Chinese imperial power. 龍dragon and 鳯phoenix. In ancient times, this was a beheading and destroyer. * Chinese patterns and Dragon's totem represents the symbol of the ancient Chinese and Chinese power. Korean people cannot use any pattern of Chinese imperial power. 龍dragon and 鳯phoenix. Only the Chinese royal family and senior officers can use it. If the  "White clothes Ethnic 白衣民族" (today's ancestors of Koreans) use the pattern of dragon and use Chinese characters. They will destroy the tribe and beheaded.  Korean characters韓字 are text used by slaves.  Ancient Korean can only use  Korean characters (after the 15th century. Chinese officials - Chaoxian king  and Chinese scholars who settled on the Chaoxian朝鮮 . Chinese officials use Chinese characters and Korean language  to create "Korean characters韓字 ".) for slaves.  These low Korean soldiers are used to protect the Chaoxian Peninsula 朝鮮半島(Chinese territory) to prevent Japanese pirates from invasion. In ancient Korea (Chaoxian朝鮮 ) does not have any technologies and processes such as metal , Bend the wood and dye embroidery patterns. Most Korean men became low -level soldiers in the Chinese army (under the command of Chinese officers). There is no armor. Korean only wear pure white clothes and korean women's clothing is exposed nipples (Hanbok - Features of traditional Korean clothes).Westerners Record photos.  All Korean women use their heads to move anything (similar to other primitive tribal culture). Korean houses are cottage built with grass (only Chinese can live in Chinese palaces and temples). Korean people earn food in the market concentrated on exchanging items. They do not have any coins and any metal things. South Korea's national culture and tools for use are very primitive.    Writing history is the tradition and habit of the ancient Chinese official . The history of the ancient Korean Peninsula was written by classical Chinese. This was read for the Chinese and must be approved for the Chinese emperor. This is a record and governance story of Chinese officials and nobles on the ancient Korean Peninsula.   ---------------------  Anceint japan (before 13th century )= 東瀛 & 扶桑 & 倭 .  (the name set by the Chinese emperor. It is also the name of the historical record) Today japan = 日本  Anceint korea= 朝鮮 (and 高包麗. 百濟. 新羅. 王氏高麗. 李氏朝鮮) .  (the name set by the Chinese emperor. It is also the name of the historical record) Today korea = 韓國(南北)  Anceint Nonth Vietnam= 交趾 .  (the name set by the Chinese emperor. It is also the name of the historical record) Today Vietnam = 越南  Anceint Okinawa= 琉球.  (the name set by the Chinese emperor. It is also the name of the historical record) Today Okinawa = 沖繩
 @lmarwarl  In the ancient Korea (Chaoxian朝鮮 , Real historical name - Chinese territory before 1910). It was two different ethnic groups. 1.Chinese (Han Ethnic)(Wear color and pattern clothes) - Ruler and nobleman  2. Korean (White Clothes Ethnic)( Wear white clothes without pattern) - Civilians and slaves    1. Ruler and nobleman (Goguryeo , Baekje, Silla , Goryeo, Joseon=Chaoxian朝鮮 ..): Chinese local officials and nobles (royal members, monks, scholars, soldiers, architects, technicians, and their families ...). They are Chinese (Han) and their descendants born in the local area. They have always wore China in China costumes. They speak Chinese language (official and Han dialect) and Chinese characters. They are Chinese officials and represent the Chinese emperor's governance of the ancient Korean Peninsula (朝鮮). Local Chinese officials (Chaoxian king朝鮮王)  and Chinese nobles in ancient Korea (Chaoxian 朝鮮-Chinese territory). They all Chinese clothes (hanfu), headdress (hat and crown), silk cloth (including embroidery), soldiers (such as: defensive clothing, horses). Weapons (including cannons), Chinese literature books (including Chinese history, Taoism Buddhism), Chinese special architectural materials (including palaces and design paintings). Food materials (Chinese food and Chinese royal food), wooden wheels used, large military ships, etc. are made from other cities in China).  Among them, the Chinese royal's (Chaoxian king /officials and nobles) Hanfu comes from Chinese han clothes, opera clothing, and hat crown headwear. Therefore, the fabric on the clothes is high -level. There are a large number of Chinese official dragon patterns and various traditional Chinese patterns (including Chinese characters) on the clothes.    2. Civilians and slaves (Goryeo, Joseon=Chaoxian朝鮮 ..only appeared in history after the 13th century): Civilians and slaves are indigenous Koreans (White Clothes Ethnic白衣民族). They speak Korean language. Long -term banned learning and use of Chinese characters 漢字(except a few descendants of mixed with Chinese people).  Korean people cannot use any pattern of Chinese imperial power. 龍dragon and 鳯phoenix. In ancient times, this was a beheading and destroyer. * Chinese patterns and Dragon's totem represents the symbol of the ancient Chinese and Chinese power. Korean people cannot use any pattern of Chinese imperial power. 龍dragon and 鳯phoenix. Only the Chinese royal family and senior officers can use it. If the  "White clothes Ethnic 白衣民族" (today's ancestors of Koreans) use the pattern of dragon and use Chinese characters. They will destroy the tribe and beheaded.  Korean characters韓字 are text used by slaves.  Ancient Korean can only use  Korean characters (after the 15th century. Chinese officials - Chaoxian king  and Chinese scholars who settled on the Chaoxian朝鮮 . Chinese officials use Chinese characters and Korean language  to create "Korean characters韓字 ".) for slaves.  These low Korean soldiers are used to protect the Chaoxian Peninsula 朝鮮半島(Chinese territory) to prevent Japanese pirates from invasion. In ancient Korea (Chaoxian朝鮮 ) does not have any technologies and processes such as metal , Bend the wood and dye embroidery patterns. Most Korean men became low -level soldiers in the Chinese army (under the command of Chinese officers). There is no armor. Korean only wear pure white clothes and korean women's clothing is exposed nipples (Hanbok - Features of traditional Korean clothes).Westerners Record photos.  All Korean women use their heads to move anything (similar to other primitive tribal culture). Korean houses are cottage built with grass (only Chinese can live in Chinese palaces and temples). Korean people earn food in the market concentrated on exchanging items. They do not have any coins and any metal things. South Korea's national culture and tools for use are very primitive.    Writing history is the tradition and habit of the ancient Chinese official . The history of the ancient Korean Peninsula was written by classical Chinese. This was read for the Chinese and must be approved for the Chinese emperor. This is a record and governance story of Chinese officials and nobles on the ancient Korean Peninsula.  -------------------  Anceint japan (before 13th century )= 東瀛 & 扶桑 & 倭 .  (the name set by the Chinese emperor. It is also the name of the historical record) Today japan = 日本  Anceint korea= 朝鮮 (and 高包麗. 百濟. 新羅. 王氏高麗. 李氏朝鮮) .  (the name set by the Chinese emperor. It is also the name of the historical record) Today korea = 韓國(南北)  Anceint Nonth Vietnam= 交趾 .  (the name set by the Chinese emperor. It is also the name of the historical record) Today Vietnam = 越南  Anceint Okinawa= 琉球.  (the name set by the Chinese emperor. It is also the name of the historical record) Today Okinawa = 沖繩
I really love this episode. I learned a lot. You should make more videos like this. :face-red-heart-shape:
lol the western take on confucianism is that of a college kid
Who ever edited/produced this did a horrible job setting a proper tone.  Don’t try to combine a travel vlog with a serious topic that’s deserving of investigation.
Please make more videos like this, Mr. Manson. This video is very educational and eye-opening, yet also very entertaining!
I wonder as a foreigner, what be the difference moving to live there now in your 20s vs 30s vs 40s?
​ @tyyg9469 wouldnt call them self expression when most artists almost all are just following a detailed script as art. You don't really see their individuality just paper dolls to look at
This format is amazing!! I even searched straight away if you have a book which tackles the same topic because this video was an eye opener for me. It made me understand why i suffer and think the way i am. I basically grew up in a similar society with so much social pressures.
Absolutely!! It's freaking amazing, i love it!!  I'm a Mexican girl living in Vancouver, there's a lot of Korean people around here, I've met Korean here but they never toldme something like what i just listened, i loved learning more about their culture
Interesting insights, bravo. Alas the math says by the end of the century there will not be enough Koreans left to fix it...
Good information about korea though I am from india I think we also have same problems like korea may be more but younger people are talking about mental health more now a days, I wish you can come to india and do content around something like this. :)
I subscribed to your channel after watching this video. Please make more content like this, I really enjoy it.
This was an AMAZING documentary, mixed in with your sage advice, unlike anything I’ve seen yet! Please continue creating these types of videos in this format with this content, it takes your questions and conversations regarding philosophy and elevates it immensely by providing real world examples and experiences…bravo, you are a born storyteller, I had no idea to the extent that this was occurring in SK, people in the US are used to being told that we’re the worst at anything mental health related, this was very informative on so many levels, while giving a face to those that are suffering.
 @tyyg9469 dominating in movies/film does not equal self expression…these people aren’t at an open mic night, singing their hearts out or sharing poetry, the point is that when things taken to extremes for sake of achievement, the joy is extinguished for most, your goal is success FIRST, anything else is part of the process, not the initial goal.  He’s not contradicting himself, if you can grasp the deeper themes that he’s exploring, through the lens of those that are born and raised in said country.
 @슈팅스타-d9t funny that you take it as criticism, and then judge his ability to critique other countries based upon where he was born and raised.  If you can’t see the hypocrisy in that, nor the irony that he’s not attempting to criticize anyone, only to understand and create awareness, then you’ve made his point 100 times over.  Nobody is here to judge, people are here to understand how another country and culture operates…sad you can’t see that as a step towards raising awareness and improving mental health.  Clearly, it’s needed, just as it is almost everywhere else in the world.
I don't know if you considered this video a documentary. Still, if you really put together an in-depth analysis of Korean society's historical/cultural/philosophical/ethical dynamics, you could influence radical transformation/healing.   "And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free."   The point is that decision-makers need to be informed. Healthy decisions need to be implemented in top-down decision-making processes, which is the typical way decisions are made, with the boss, the patriarch making the decisions but permission to think about self must also be granted to the individual, for the pressure to conform is culturally normative. There is a big problem that needs to be rectified.  The populace must embrace new values, beliefs, and consequential practices. Therefore, Korea needs to embrace change. "Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results."  Firstly, there needs to be a healthy work-life balance. Secondly, "It's okay to not be okay! " At an individual level, individuals must be permitted to do something about it. Thirdly, let children be children for longer. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy." Moreover, there ought to be a top-down duty of care for the individual. If this does not happen, no healing is possible for the individual and the collective will not be transformed either.
Mostly a good vid. But the last bit with the f-word from the therapist was clearly a shameless plug for your book. Let me guess: you told her to say that.
wow! this is amazing! i like these in-depth cultural comparisons instead of superficial tourist videos.
This was awesome in content and filming style. I love how you highlighted the cultures current environment and the psychological effects of its history on Koreans today. I loved watching this 🙏
Definitely more!  I love the ‘deep dive into one issue ‘format. It gives us more insights. Which is very enriching.
It feels like a very intentional video. Of course, as a Korean, I have also lived under stress, but thanks to the efforts of my parents, my elders, and myself, in a short period of time, Korea has been able to become the developed country it is today, from the ruins after the Korean War, and you foreigners are enjoying it, and on the other hand, you are surprised and jealous, and you are going crazy wondering why, what was the reason...? In Korea, where there were no resources, three million people died in the war, and almost all the facilities were destroyed. There were only people left and the only thing to do was to educate them. Foreigners only know Korea as it is now because they haven't learnt Eastern history, but the Korean peninsula has already perfected its education system over 5,000 years. If you don't study Korean history, you have no idea what the intensity of this is, so our parents' generation, even if they starved themselves, gave their children intense education to produce a high-quality, high-quality workforce, and the people who became intelligent because of this produced a democratic uprising to get rid of the military dictatorship. Stress? Suicide? It's a double-edged sword. If you foreigners want to see a post-Korean War Korea where Koreans are still farming, building, playing and receiving aid as a backward country, or a Korea where there is education, stress, suicide, and all the sacrifices that have been made to make Korea the world's leading country today... you have to decide. You decide. Don't just point fingers, if what you are pointing out is the concept of this film, I would accept it, but you seem to be a frog in a well. If you came to me instead of just interviewing whoever you want, you would have a more objective and correct perception, which unfortunately is not the concept you are aiming for.   Translated with DeepL.com (free version)
First video I’ve seen by you so I don’t know the old format but I really loved this video. You have a new fan 😁
Crazy thing is, I have a similar value system to Korea, albeit not anywhere as brutal. I also value financial well being over mental health, because good finances are essential for my mental health. Relationships, I have enough of them already due to family and a very small friend group.
​ @IAmMarkManson A great video except "brutal occupation by the Japanese".  An Infamous goverment propaganda must have gotten you as well but us young generations already found out how a post war propaganda maybe associated with the north went and figured out why many if our great grandparents used to say the days under Japan was better than before under our own rulers.   Here's one of many writings that describe how it was before and after Japan. Former US President Herbert Hoover wrote: “I first visited Korea in 1909, to advise some Japanese industrialists on engineering matters. The Korean people at that time were in the most disheartening condition that I had witnessed in any part of Asia. There was little law and order. The masses were underfed, under-clothed, under housed and under equipped. There was no sanitation, and filth and squalor enveloped the whole countryside. The roads were hardly passable, and there were scant communication or educational facilities. Scarcely a tree broke the dismal landscape. Thieves and bandits seemed to be unrestrained.  During the thirty-five years of Japanese control, the life of the Korean people was revolutionized. Beginning with this most unpromising human material, the Japanese established order, built harbors, railways, roads and communications, good public buildings, and greatly improved housing. They established sanitation and taught better methods of agriculture. They built immense fertilizer factories in North Korea which lifted the people’s food supplies to reasonable levels. They reforested the bleak hills. They established a general system of education and the development of skills. Even dusty, drab and filthy clothing had been replaced with clean bright colors.” – “Freedom Betrayed” (1965) 　  There are lots of testimony by former presidents and university professors as well
그래서 어쩌라는건데 처맞을라고  쓸때 없는 분란은 양놈들이 다 만들어 항상
Great way of integrating promos with interesting parts of the video.
South Korea has a democratic  Asian country. But they are still extremely tough country still.
I like at the end when she says I don't give a fuck lol
I really liked the music choices and looked for more info in the description but didn't find it. Any info you can provide?
Mark, please do  come to South Africa and conduct  one of these documentary,  you will discover  the similarities and differences on how South Africans live. Especially  the Gen Z
Feels awful to hear, more so perhaps because in someway in someday even the best of us may have felt that kind of pressure..a while with it already feels so depressive so to live with that feeling for all the life 😢  ..hope with this new generation's open minds towards the issue the things will be better and soon... Support to all
I'm impressed. From 19:00 he summarized why I've been depressed my entire life in one minute 😂
Mark has such a genius way of making really concise statements that are easy to understand yet really dense, not to mention accurate
He says that they have given up the best parts of capitalism: individualism and self expression. But then says they are dominating in arts. Aren’t these contradicting statements?
 @tyyg9469  If “dominating arts” refers to Kpop and dramas, they are pretty well known for conformity..🤷🏻‍♀️ ut that doesn’t mean there aren’t real gems like the films of Bong’s, and other indie films and music.
Im wondering where and when elitism came into the equation as well.. As a Korean I feel like elitism is one of the biggest issues in Korean society that's not talked about as much.  Stuffs like most working class people wanting to gather into Seoul, severe gap between in-seoul and  out of-seoul universities, gap-jil(basically discriminating and treating people like sht based on their socioeconomic status/jobs even if the person is no better than the middle class..).
Ive always thought that about asia in general, but since im southamerican I thought may be I didnt have the POV to understand, but I think asian philosofy of duty and honor mixed with capitalism is what fucked everything.
That leads to high rates of narcissistic personality disorder, and many other personality disorders in order to make it to the top. In order not to be crushed by the competition.  The narcissistic personality disorder is often covert, not just overt. Bullying is common, even amongst adults. But, it's done quietly, subtly, flying monkeys, high-pressure techniques, through what they call "tradition" or  "culture".    You either assimilate, or you're sent to the edge unless you don't mind being different.
This was so on point. I have long observed this but never could describe it as succinctly until now. It’s like the country is living with an identity crisis or having a jekyll and hyde moment.
In terms of living standard, I have no complaint overall, but this country has somehow cult-like mentality and faith. Simply said, They are so secular.
Confucianism in this case is equivalent to JP's cultural Marxism. That's too lazily westernized point of view. It's just a superficial decoy. I've never seen anyone saying "Confucianism is a problem" actually know what Confucianism is. Valuing family over oneself? Were Italians in 19th C Confucianist? When a society doesn't function to protect individuals, people tends to regress into tangible boundaries like family. Don't you think it's a contradiction that people prioritize financial security over family in an extreme Confucianist society?
@pradhyumnamuralidharan4168   yes, it absolutely does if you're truly dedicated to it.
I thought Guam was the most depressed country and it’s an isolated island in the pacific surrounded by NOTHING
Thank you for sharing your story. And also for saying that without responsible capitalism, capitalism will yield casualties.
Confucianism has lots of side effect i agree as a Korean
Lol if you don't like capitalism you can always head north 😂
 @doberton   Head north? Capitalism? Or Narcissism? It is no wonder why the West is in decline because they lost this last ounce of humanity and empathy and is left with pure greed & narcissism.  If you don't belongs to the top 1%, chances are you too will head south very soon. When you are struggling to pay bills or to just survive with a rampant inflation you should thank capitalism.  Now if it happens a day when you lost your job and struggling to pay loans, mortgages and to keep a roof over your head, please remember this 'Lol, if you don't like capitalism, you have nowhere else to go'!  Trust me, karma always returns to haunt people!
 @YOUARESOFT.  I just voted for Vivek last week in the primary but ok, i think if you don't like south Korea and capitalism,  communism is only a stones throw away
can you please sum up quickly what does that mean concretely ?
 @YOUARESOFT.  South Korean complaining about capitalism and i said go north if you don't like capitalism
Difficulty level  western  easy  medium Hard Verry hard Asian
the sad thing is lower class citizen are forced to serve the rich
same thing in China and Japan, we live in the same economical cultural circle.
as a born and raised in korea but studied in US, It sucks to see the best comment on this kind of videos ,like foriegners talking about korea very freely without some sensotivities to koreans, are always self shaming/blaming type of comment by korean 😢
​@tyyg9469  but it makes money abroad so many songs or groups aren't as well-received or are even banned in Korea.
Korea and japan is more similar than I thought, the work ethic, showing off, suicide, pressure from families, loneliness, and all of the things are a lot more similar then I thought
​ @HH-kg4fq i don't think they have narcissistic personality disorder in Korea. They use the ICD 11. So, no personality disorders for them. All those are an American thing...and almost didn't make it into the latest DSM. So, the DSM 6 might not have personality disorders either.
This is a typical statement made by someone who has not read more than few pages of Confucian texts and defines every outdated, oppressive yet "traditional" cultural element of Korean society as a byproduct of being "Confucian". As a comparison, this is basically like characterizing Christianity purely with crusades, inquisition and selling indulgence. Sure - there are historical examples of any religion/idea being abused, but to define every negative aspect of historical past to a particular religion/culture is pretty absurd in my view.
 @princealbertz south korea is more depressed because the work culture is tough. South Korea has a larger economy than all of russia even though russia is over 150x larger. The reason south korea developed so fast was because of extremely hard working culture and competition. Guam is one of the happiest countries in the world because people just live simple lives. It’s not nearly as modern and developed as korea, but the people are happier on average
 @HH-kg4fq  More I think about this, I'm not so sure what's so "traditional" or "cultural" about certain people being elitist/competitive/etc. in Korea. In many ways, it feels rather exceptionally recent phenomenon that has morphed into something completely new and bizarre in the recent years.
 @atlantisssssssss  lol. Correct. In terms of MMO gaming, it's like saying that your entire in real life personality is defined by your characters DPS. In other words, I'm a worthless failure in real life and my personality is garbage if my DPS is low in game. Humanity has lost their minds more now than in the past. This is where we are in the era of knowledge and global communication at the touch of a button....
 @bernkbestgirl  u say that India is much happier than SK, i think it's bcz of poverty. In China, there is a popular joke on the Internet, "poverty limits imagination", which means that something exceeds your imagination. When someone is poor, there are fewer options available. On the one hand, it will reduce desires, and on the other hand, a little improvement will be very satisfying. For example, when you are extremely hungry, you will not want a Michelin meal. Instead, a piece of bread made from inferior flour will easily make you feel full. Another example is that when you are in the desert for a long time, you will not want tea or coffee. Just a little water will make you feel no longer thirsty. I also think that's why some people in China now  even miss the era decades ago when material resources were scarce but class struggle was fierce. At that time, there was not a big gap between people, and material resources were generally scarce. There was neither jealousy brought about by comparison nor desires beyond imagination, so everyone felt very happy.
The Korean's dislike of Confucianism is mixed with the idea of striving to seek their own national identity and westernization. However, at least in the foreseeable future, they will not be regarded as Westerners by Westerners. At least without communication, Westerners can tell just from their appearance. This cultural collision between the East and the West has deepened their overall latent frustration.  Confucian culture is not all dross, and the source of Confucian culture is in China. Before it was used as a tool of the ruling class, that is, in the Spring and Autumn Period(5 century BC) when Confucianism first emerged, there were many other schools of thought besides Confucianism, which all gave us many inspirations for understanding the world today. Therefore, in China, traditional thought, capitalism, and socialism collide and merge with each other. We will find that this complex world presents a chaotic model, with too many variables in it. Any extreme fundamentalism that believes in only one ideology and mythologizes it will feel frustrated when explaining and solving problems in this world, which happens to coincide with the idea of "中庸"（the mean, emphasis on balance, moderation, and harmony.)  in traditional Chinese thought, isn't it interesting?  Similar problems exist in the entire East Asian cultural circle, but they are also somewhat different. The governments of SK and Japan cannot compete with the power of large conglomerates controlled by foreign capital. There are even foreign troops stationed in their countries. However, China is independent and autonomous, and those large conglomerates are under the control of the government, not vice versa, so I still have confidence in China.
 @seekx2y556  I basically agree, when people get spoiled and get their "needs" met it can cause them to be unhappy.  Decadence is a problem and there is no easy solution, at least not a solution that fits in with western political sentiments.
​ @여인태-i9o But do Koreans have sensitivity when they talk about other countries?
​ @tmtb80 They are quite narcissist, one of the most narcissist countries in the world. Saying that narcissism is an American thing is being quite ignorant, hateful and patethic😂
South Koreans don’t realize how lucky they are. If you have nothing but complain,  try living in North Korea.
 @siddhampatil1901  I assme you're from india... i don't see any foreigners marrying Indians at all in india. but younger gen Koreans are dating foreigners. don't call the whole country racist when a lot of asian countries are very similar in being ethnocentric.
I wouldn’t say capitalism is the worst, I can see that you don’t know o haven’t heard about Venezuela, Argentina, Cuba, Nicaragua, but you have North Korea next to you so I don’t really understand why you hate capitalism that much. Comun!sm and soc!al!sm can became a rich country into a such terrible place to live in. Appreciate what you have
 @YOUARESOFT. maybe not the best in the world but it is so much better than c0munist and social!st countries in the same continent, countries like Venezuela, Argentina, Nicaragua or Cuba. USA could reach high levels of quality of live similar to Europe and Asian countries like Japan, South Korea or Singapore.
 @JohnLee-db9zt true, they don’t realise how lucky they are to live in such a developed country with all the facilities 😢
 @Anonymity_num you’re right but just don’t say ‘capital!sm’ is the worst, of course there are thing to be fixed but with capitalism in the base and not throwing it out of the formula because all you have (high quality of live, technology, development, economy) is thanks to that
 @sagupalgu  말하기 나름인데 나쁜면이 있는 반면에 좋은면들도 많죠, 제 말의 포인트는 동영상의 제목 "전세계에서 가장 우울한 나라"라고 표현한 외국사람이 딱히 좋게 보이지  않은 거에요. 한국 사람이 미국가서 마약이나 비만 문제 갖고 적나라에게 영상 올리고 제목을 저렇게 지었으면 서양인들은 욕 하는 댓글이 많을테니까요. 그리고 너무 랜덤하게 한국 방문에서 이런 영상을 올렸는데 채널을 보면 이런 영상을 올리는 사람이 아닌데 올린것도 좀 이상하구  뭔가 제 3의 세력에게 후원받은 영상이 아닐지라는 생각도 조금 들었어요.
Then, how many slaves made up of the total population in Joseon? "Academics estimate that about 40 percent of the Joseon population was about 10 million, or about 4 million slaves." Han Myeong-hoe, a famous minister in the early Joseon Dynasty, said, "One million of the public slaves are on the run."  So there was even a state agency called Jang 掌隷, which was in charge of arresting slaves or litigating slaves. In the Gyeongguk 典, which was created during the reign of King Seongjong, "One 賤則賤 is confirmed. In other words, the law stipulates that if one of the parents is a slave, the child becomes a slave as well."   What is the basis for Western researchers to treat slaves during the Joseon Dynasty as slaves?  "The most important rationale is that slaves during the Joseon Dynasty were sold, given, and inherited. In other words, slaves were treated like objects."   The Joseon Dynasty was an unprecedented country where its relatives were enslaved. According to the Annals of the Joseon Dynasty, half of the Japanese soldiers during the Japanese Invasion of Korea in 1592 were Joseon people, and in the Annals of the Joseon Dynasty, there is a record that it is worrisome that the people welcomed the Japanese soldiers rather than the Japanese soldiers.  Thanks to Yi Sun-shin, the Joseon people suffered from slavery for another 400 years.   Joseon was a poorest country in the 19th century, that is, 500 years after its foundation, it was only able to keep up with the economic power and production of Goryeo in the 13th century. "How can a country [Joseon] be so poor in this world? It is similar to a woman's poor house, so it is not easy to run a single progressive (鎭堡). I was very rich in the early days of Goryeo, but I don't know why our country is so poor."  『The Annals of Seonjo』 as of September 28, 38   Korean history from Gojoseon to Japan.  Sugihara, a professor who published "Japan's Bronze Age from Korea," said, "The Bronze Age came to Japan from 100 BC to AD50, the end of Korean Bronze Age society. In Japan, the Iron Age and the Bronze Age were handed down at the same time during the Yayoi period, and the Bronze Age was only used for ancestral rites, so it seems that it went straight to the Iron Age without going through the Bronze Age."  Around 100 BC – Ancient civilization began in Japan when Koreans landed with iron weapons in Japan, where primitive people in the Stone Age lived. Japanese history is the history of the Gaya Baekje Kingdom and the history of the Korean people   "High-tech science has proven historical truths that no one has ever told you. In other words, Koreans moved to Japan and founded the ancient civilization of Japan. Although traces of the Yayoi civilization, which ended Japan's primitive era and opened up an ancient society, appear throughout the Japanese mainland, it is widely accepted as orthodox that it originated in the northern part of Kyushu by the descendants. The study made it clear that the Yayoi people are descendants of people from the southern part of the Korean Peninsula."   The Chinese Han Chinese, along with Vietnam, were grouped in a different lineage, showing genetic differences from Koreans.  O2b: This type can be said to be the core of Koreans' unique Y chromosome. It accounts for 37.3 percent of Koreans, but is rarely found in China. O2b is mainly distributed in Japan (31.9 percent) and Manchu (3.8 percent) outside of the Korean Peninsula, so O2b can be said to be a unique gene of Koreans and Japanese people   "Chinese are cockroaches in the shape of humans"  - Hideki Tojo (Prime Minister of the Cabinet) -  Asked by a reporter, "Do you have any plans to incorporate Chinese into imperial citizens like Joseon?"   At the time of the annexation of Korea and Japan, the Japanese ruling class thought they were unified and granted equal rights to Koreans through an internal integration policy. In addition, a huge amount of 30 percent of Japan's total budget was poured every year for the modernization of Joseon.   There were many complaints from the Japanese at the time about the exploitation of Niigata rice to Joseon because of the lack of rice in Joseon.  The lives of Koreans have become so abundant that the population, which had remained at the level of 10 million without population growth for 600 years during the Joseon Dynasty, doubled during the Japanese colonial era.  "During the colonial period, Joseon's population grew by 12.6 million people, about 69 percent of whom, 8.7 million, were within the Korean Peninsula and 31 percent were flown to Manchuria and Japan."   There were more Japanese in Japanese Military Sexual Slavery. Japanese Military Sexual Slavery was a legitimate job that featured advertisements for Japanese Military Sexual Slaverys in newspapers. Pay and Japanese Koreans were equally paid more than Chinese. Forced labor was also much more Japanese, and it was a high-wage job with higher pay than doctors.  "The wages of Korean coal mine workers were 3.7 times higher than that of Japanese soldiers."   The independent army (Koreans who lived in Manchuria refer to them as the Marjeokdan) that was active in Manchuria was the Northeast Anti-Japanese Alliance, a partisan force under the Chinese Communist Party. As a coalition of the Korean Independence Army and the Chinese Ho-gun, many of them were communists who acquired Chinese nationality, and 339 of them were independence forces in association with the Chinese Communist Party.  On the other hand, at the end of World War II, there were more than 800,000 Korean Japanese military applicants, and the competition rate for enlistment exceeded 62:1. You can see how Koreans perceived Japan at that time   If Japan lost the Russo-Japanese War, all Koreans would be forced to move to Siberia and are now logging.  Both Taiwan and Southeast Asian countries are grateful to Japan. Malaysia's prime minister said he shed tears of joy as he watched British troops being driven away by Japanese troops, and Indonesia still pays tribute to Japanese soldiers every year. China and Korea are the only anti-Japanese countries in the world.   For the future of the Korean people, the Korea-Japan alliance should be strengthened and ultimately merged. The most feared thing among the pro-Chinese is the Korea-Japan alliance.   The north of the Great Wall was not Chinese territory. It was ruled by Mongols, Manchurians, and Koreans. Qin Shi Huang built the Great Wall to block the so-called Northern Orangkai. Later, China was conquered by the Jin Dynasty and Mongolia, founded by descendants of the god line Kim Ham-bo, and ruled by the Manchurians for 300 years after the Qing Dynasty. Manchurian Yuanryu Go (滿洲源流考), compiled during the Qianlong Emperor of the Qing Dynasty, also identifies the origin of the founder of the Golden Dynasty as Silla, and the national title of the Golden Dynasty also reveals that his surname originated from the last name of the Silla king.   The Gojoseon civilization predates the Yellow River civilization in China by 1,500 years. "The Gojoseon civilization, which appeared 5,000 years ago, was the third ancient civilization in the world after the Mesopotamian civilization (5,500 years ago) and the Egyptian civilization (5,100 years ago). It comprehensively summarizes the origins and birth of Gojoseon civilization, socioeconomic foundations and cultural characteristics, and the foundation, development, and dismantling of ancient countries."  About 12,000 years ago, when the ice age ended, people who started farming on the ancient Korean Peninsula below the 40th degree north latitude succeeded in cultivating rice and beans for the first time in the world. As a result of the Neolithic Agricultural Revolution, the number of groups living in the Namhangang and Geumgang basins increased significantly, and some of them moved to the north, where agriculture became possible. Those who were located in the east of the Liao River became Yejok (濊族), where tigers were totems, and those who crossed the west of the Liao River became Mac (族), where bears were totems.  Professor Shin argues that Gojoseon moved its capital to Liaodong 1,000 years later to absorb the Yejok, and expanded its territory east-west to build an ancient federal state spanning the Korean Peninsula, Manchuria, and coastal states.  He said, "The Korean, Ye, and Macs that led to the Korean people formed the center of Gojoseon, and nomadic peoples that were conquered and annexed, such as Eupru, Hun, Dolgol, and Mongolia, were surrounded."   The reason why Chinese scholars deny Gojoseon civilization is that Gojoseon civilization shakes the fabricated Chinese history by taking root
​ @tyyg9469  nah, even those are manufactured under strict guidance and management
 @tyyg9469  What're defined as "arts" those are the thing that should have been defined accurately or at least precise enough for the discussion to continue
 @ueckbueck  The girl group New Jeans + Black Pink + Red Velvet + Twice + ITZY + Kepler + wooah + LE SSERAFIM + BABYMONSTER and others are all natural beauties, and it's an old-fashioned prejudice to say that when some members of the Kpop group have plastic surgery.
 @ueckbueck Like you even have read a single page of The Analects of Confucius 😂
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  They don't have much history of their own. It was always colonization by the Chinese, Japanese, Mongolians, and even Americans. Their culture is 80% Japanese and about 20% chinese.
 @ueckbueck  Was I even taling to you ? lol as if you even knew the first thing about how the comment section works？Under an English-titled video and you don't even bother to look for the proper translation for 논어?  Yes, I read 論語 The Analects of Confucius on a daily basis. I even do stats on particular words quoted from it. Wouldn't call you out if you people hadn't held Confucius responsible for shaming and judging people .
 @RollerBladingSuxs  hahaha Kings of thousands of years of Korean dynasties will laugh in the sky after hearing you.
Can't agree more. 19:12 This is where the most artistically precise part comes in! It's so accurate that I'm watching it over and over again.
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  50 years of Japanese rule. 111 years of Mongolian rule and one thousand years of Chinese rule. And American occupation still of this day. All facts of Korea
 @Samraushan09  well when 98% of the population in a country is the same ethnic race, racism is bound to happen. It's just human nature.
 @bapbirb  I thnk the Elitism comes from History of the society's composition such as Yangban and slaves.
As a third culture kid his statement sums up all the reasons why I’m so grateful my parents uprooted their lives and immigrated.
 @RollerBladingSuxs  That kind of stupid speech is a fact? The Chinese have never ruled Korea. Rather, the Chinese were ruled by Manchurian, a member of Korea's Goguryeo kingdom.
 @RollerBladingSuxs  The reason why the Korean and Manchurian languages have the same order is that the Manchurian was a Malgal belonging to Goguryeo in Korea in the past, and the Malgal people also talked to the Goguryeo people in Korea.
 @RollerBladingSuxs  The Chinese were ruled by Mongolians, who had similar roots as Koreans. But the Koreans had a state and a king and interacted with the Mongols, and the Chinese were later ruled by the Manchurians, who belonged to Korea's Goguryeo. But the Koreans had a state and a king as well as interacted with the Manchurians.
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  But korea had to give tributaries every year to China.
 @RollerBladingSuxs  Silly. That was given to Manchurian, a member of Korea's Goguryeo kingdom, who ruled the Chinese. The Chinese were ruled by Manchurian, a member of Korea's Goguryeo kingdom, and had no king or country at that time.
 @RollerBladingSuxs  You gave it to the Chinese who had no king and no state under the rule of Manchurian, a member of Korea's Goguryeo kingdom? That stupid thing doesn't work in this world anymore.
 @ueckbueck  "Dominating arts ?" is really a myth in the world; remember how they summoned up all the KPOPs, KDramas, and even the 11 years "Gangnam Style" to promote a 2030 World EXPO venue right they failed on too confident a 119 to 29 seats to Saudi, 500 days ineffective efforts.
​ @bernkbestgirl India is currently positioned at 126th place out of 146 countries with Happiness score of 4.036, according to the World Happiness Report, classifying it as one of the world's least joyful nations. India's rank in the happiness index is lower than its neighbouring countries like Nepal, Bangladesh, and China
​ @韩国新羅第三代满洲 WRONG, The Koreans were reluctant to pay tributes to the Manchurian because they were considered as barbarian. In fact more tribute were given to Han Chinese dynasties than Manchurian
 @massalleh5255  Singapore is rated as more capitalistic and arguably more "Confucian", but is much happier than SK according to that same index of happiness.  But I stand corrected on India
 @massalleh5255  Is it wrong to tell the truth? HAHAHA. It is true that the Chinese Ming was ruled by Manchurian, a member of Korea's Goguryeo.
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  The Chinese Ming wasn't ruled by Manchurian LOL. What drugs are you smoking on. It was the Qing that was ruled by Manchurian. You already got your history facts wrong
 @massalleh5255  Chinese Ming was ruled by the Manchurian people, who belonged to Korea's Goguryeo.
 @massalleh5255  Don't interpret my words at your level. That's why the Manchurians of Goguryeo in Korea founded the Qing Dynasty.
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  Chinese Ming wasn't ruled by Manchurian people it is the Qing dynasty that was ruled by Manchurian people
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  Your level was far lower than mine. Ming Dynasty is not Manchurian people. Qing Dynasty is ruled by Manchurian people the fact already admitted by yourself
 @massalleh5255  1. So the Chinese Ming, who you talk about as if you are brainless, was ruled by the Manchurian people who belonged to Korea's Goguryeo
 @massalleh5255  3. HAHAHAHA. I told you the truth that the Chinese Ming was ruled by the Manchurians, and I didn't say that the Chinese Ming was Manchurian at your low level.
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  So the Chinese Ming wasn't ruled by Manchurian. It was the Qing ruled by Manchurian as admitted by your brainless head when you said Manchurian founded the Qing dynasty. Korean continue to give tributes even after Ming dynasty ends
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  Hahahahaha I told you already Ming Dynasty wasn't ruled by Manchurian. It was the Qing 🤣🤣🤣🤣
 @massalleh5255  I didn't say the Ming was ruled by the Manchus. The Ming said the Manchurians later ruled the Chinese and established the Qing Dynasty. headless dude.
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  The Ming didn't said. It was already fallen by the time Qing was established. But before that Manchurian also exists as a tributary states to the Ming
 @massalleh5255  The Manchurians ruled the Chinese and established the Qing Dynasty, so of course the Ming Dynasty was ruined. Seeing as you're making obvious noises, you must have understood my right argument now. HA HA HA HA HA.
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  It is ruined and fall. But you didn't say Ruined. You said RULED that's a two different word. Obviously you are confused between the two. And you have the nerve to tell others they're not at the same level as you
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  Obvious noises??? LOL. Look who's talking. The noises are more louder coming from you
 @massalleh5255  HAHAHAHAHA. Is that an excuse? So far, you've made up your own nonsense.
 @massalleh5255  No matter how much nonsense you make, it is true that the Manchurians, who belonged to Korea's Goguryeo, dominated and ruled the Chinese, and the reality remains unchanged.
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  No matter how much nonsense you make. Recognised the word RUIN Instead of RULE. Where is Manchurian located now since we're on the topic. And where are they now and why they using Chinese names now. And how many of them are actually pure Manchurian
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  Hahahahaha that's what you called an excuse. You can't even phrase your own sentences properly
 @massalleh5255  PoooHA HA HA. You made up like a con artist about what I said. Am I not good at expressing sentences? Your excuse doesn't work for me.
 @massalleh5255  However, the reputation of the Manchurians, who belonged to Korean Goguryeo, who ruled and ruled the Chinese, remains unchanged.
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  Bwahahahahah look at the con artist failing to recognize the word Ruined from Ruled. Yes you are certainly not very good at it. But EXTREMELY Bad
 @massalleh5255  No matter how much you make such an excuse, it's no use. Even though you understand me late, you still make excuses in such a way.  That low-level excuse like yours. I'll understand with a generous heart. POOO HA HA HA HA HA.
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  and where is Manchuria and Inner Mongolia located now 😊
 @massalleh5255  and Why do Korea's Goguryeo place names + Korea's Baekje place names + Korea's Silla place names + Korea's Goryeo place names exist on the land that China luckily occupied? ☺
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  And why do Manchuria still remains under China. And Liaoning peninsula which was Goguryeo belongs to China now
 @massalleh5255  This is because the Chinese, who had lived under the control of the Manchurians, occupied the Manchurian regime and land for free, which had been weakened by the Opium War. You don't even know history and you're good at standing up to me. PPOOOO HA HA HA HA HA.
 @massalleh5255  and The same ethnic group with the same Korean language order, the Khitan, xianbei, Mongolian, and Manchu ethnic groups, which have the same roots as Korea, have ruled the Chinese since ancient times. But the Chinese have never ruled the Koreans. That's the obvious fact that there is no lie ☺😚
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  and this is because Manchurian eventually ruined by the Chinese. Ruined yeah not ruled as you claimed before 😂😂😂
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  and now who's dominating the Manchurian so called ancestors of Goguryeo Hahahahaha
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  But they ruled the Koreans during the tang and ming 😊. Now they ruled over the Manchurian if they still exist
 @massalleh5255  In addition, the Manchurians themselves say through the Manchurian Yuanryu that their ancestors were Korea's Goguryeo and Korea's Silla. The ancestors of Goguryeo were the Manchurians? The Manchurians lived together in Goguryeo talking to the Korean Goguryeo people, and you don't even know the history, and YOU, it's just a sham of saying it backwards. 😆😆😆😆😆
 @massalleh5255  and order, leading to the Sui dynasty of the xianbei dynasty, and the Sui dynasty of the xianbei dynasty led to the Tang dynasty. Except for a few senior Chinese people in the Tang dynasty of the xianbei dynasty, the rest of the lower classes were Chinese. 😁😁😁😁😁
​ @massalleh5255  2. The Tang dynasty was the successor to the Sui dynasty,
 @massalleh5255   3. and the birth of the Sui dynasty was ruled by xianbei, a people of the same roots with the same Korean language and order,
 @massalleh5255  4. leading to the Sui dynasty of the xianbei dynasty, and the Sui dynasty of the xianbei dynasty led to the Tang dynasty.
 @massalleh5255  5. Except for a few senior Chinese people in the Tang dynasty of the xianbei dynasty, the rest of the lower classes were Chinese. 😆
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  In addition their lands are under the Chinese now. And their language has almost extinct 😊
 @massalleh5255  The Sui of the xianbei dynasty and the Tang dynasty of the xianbei dynasty were the xianbei royalty, and the Chinese who had lived under the rule of xianbei had no state and no king. But at that time, Koreans had a king and a state. That's also an obvious fact. 😆
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  And the Koreans were massacred during the Tang invasion 😊
 @韩国新羅第三代满洲  and half of Goguryeo lands are under the Chinese now 😊
 @Mariajbh2  American said about Korean: They are quite narcissist.   It is most hilarious comment, lol.
 @hitthegroundjay85  I'm not American, not everyone commenting on the internet is American🤡. But if you know anything about narcissism you will know that Korean society has a much higher and deeper level of narcissism, there is no comparison. Now you can go somewhere else attacking people and justify that you are a Koreaboo..........
 @hl675  One of the reasons given in this video that makes Korean society so depressed is the Confucian tradition, but u express it here as if they are proud of their Confucian tradition. I have no intention to compare which country, China or the original Joseon, has been most thoroughly Confucianized, bcz these two countries have never been of the same size and are not comparable. However, this is definitely not a story like India, where Buddhism emerged but didn't become the mainstream. In addition, there is a saying in China that "there is no first in literature（文无第一）".  About “strong socialist movements”,  i know ur referring to the Cultural Revolution, and i have also no intention of overturning it, but actually i think that it was a good thing to a certain extent. It pulled the Confucian tradition from its pedestal and abandoned the ideas that were tampered with by the ruling class more than 2,000 years ago, returned its status as a philosophical thought, and brought it back to an equal status with other doctrines that existed at the same time when it was born, such as Taoism, Legalism, and Mohism. This is one of the reasons why there is still a serious seniority culture in the Korean workplace today, but in China there is relative equality.  About “The current implementation of social credit systems, utilizing AI and facial recognition”，i think ur really just talking and spreading rumors without any investigation.  i also think this is the difference between us. u can only accept the propaganda of Western media, but i can receive two completely opposite statements, and then i can think independently based on my own observations and draw my own conclusions. If u are using this topic to spread your despicable anti-communist intentions and political propaganda, then i'm sorry, i will not participate in this debate. F* politics.
I'm chinese and american.Based on what you described, you have the trait of these two countries.
I think Korea Japan China in East Asia all have this problem.
 @tyyg9469 I guess Mark don’t regard  K-pop or film with violence sex as Art
 @rockugotcha which society protect individuals? USA? France? none of countries protect individuals.
 @siddhampatil1901 technically the country with worse racial equivalence is Qatar. Korea is not even in the top 10 which proves that it is not the ‘most’ racist country but I do think our country should start realising the importance of educating people about racism. Elders in Korea are very conservative towards foreigners which is a pretty big problem.Also it’s more like classism than racism. Even in Korea poor Korean people are often looked down on. It’s the same with people from countries that are less wealthier than Korea… For some reasons I don’t understand there are some stupid people who discriminate other people for just being from a country less wealthier than ours…
⁠​⁠​⁠​⁠​⁠ indiasuperclean6969 actually the cleanest country in the world is Denmark. And it is also safe for woman to walk around at night in Korea. just like almost any other countries in the world there are lots of people in India who are living in poverty and can’t have clean food and use clean toilets all the time.
⁠ @massalleh5255 some part of our lands in the ‘past’ are the current lands of china. Also our language are not almost extinct
 @SP-ez4ob  Exactly, past and the current. The owners of the current is the one who GOT it
 @massalleh5255  if that’s what you meant you should have put the word ‘past’ in your comment.
 @massalleh5255  Manchurian was a language usually used in China not Korea
 @SP-ez4ob  No, I don't need to put it. I just asking where are the Manchurian lives now
 @SP-ez4ob  Tell that to Ittae. He's the one who claimed Manchurian as part of Korean languages group. I just snidely question where are the Manchurian now and where are their lands now
 @massalleh5255  what you have been talking to someone else doesn’t matter. When I said our language hasn’t gotten extinct you said Manchurian had which is technically a language that some Chinese people living in Manchuria used. Which means what you are saying is wrong. And yes you do. Since you said ‘your lands are almost china’s land now’ however that is not our land anymore it simply used to be ours more than a thousands of years ago .
Just capitalism. The wild experiment in selfishness is coming to an end
 @tyyg9469  specifically with K-pop, hardly any individualism and self-expression. Just copy/pasted from one group to another.
이 댓글을 쓴 분이 정말 한국인인지  모르겠는데요. 한국사회는 유교와 관계없습니다. 그건 유교와 관계되어있다고 착각하고 있을 뿐입니다.  유교는 한국사회처럼 배려가 없고 무례한 사회를 권장하는 가르침이 아닙니다. 유교에 대해서 겉핥기로만 안다면 더 알아보세요.
Come to Christ, who is the only one who can rescue you (AND North Korea).
As someone also born and raised in Korea, your statement is fckng bllsht bro lolll That's like saying "the u.s. has the worst mix of socialism and capitalism" because I promise you, I can find examples of where this is true with sniper like accuracy.  California anyone?  With many cities/states following suit. Yes we do have a lot of depressed disgruntled people in Korea.  Yes we have the highest (allegedly) reported suicide rates per capita in the world. But maybe that's because we are not all drugged out on opioids and amphetamines like some countries. Maybe we need more grass and pain killers and the super bowl and marvel super heroes to make us happier. Just saying.
I disagree that it is the worst of both confucianism and capitalism, there's two sides to every coin and there's a lot of people that display the best of both ideologies in this society. You may think it's bad here if that is all you know but there are many societies that are much worse. The world is a broken place. The Confucius message of "Do not do unto others what you would not want others to do unto you." is actually a good one.
 @浮生如夢-v7j  Some similarity to China, but not quite the same as China. People are not generally depressed here and generally has less burden than the average korean. Chinese, especially the young ones are very individualistic and don't give an F about hierarchy like bosses and parents but still generally obey rule of law. Chinese workers are also more practical, they will go home before the boss does, unlike japanese or korean. At the current situation, Chinese are more entrepreneurial than korean or japanese. Another factor is the government where in China the gov has more power to change the situation such bursting the real estate bubble on purpose to make homes affordable but causing many capitalist to suffer or destroying the private tutoring conglomerate to make education more affordable, again at the expense of the capitalist. The gov also keep a very tight control of the idol culture which means less materialism (but still too much) or less bad public behavior of idols. While many living in the wealthy coastal region live quite similar live style than many east asian countries, there are also many cities in China which has much slower pace of live and not that stressful to live in. Capitalist corporate culture and individualism is destroying Chinese birth rate which is slightly different than why koreans don't give birth.
I literally shared almost the same observation with someone a few days before watching this video! Glad to note my observations are accurate.  The mix of traditions and rigid capitalism is hurting the country. Which on paper should not.... because it's good to be rooted to your culture despite the economic development.....But practically it's all about what is the core focus on in the society overall. Wish Koreans more relaxing times in the future..... In Krishna Consciousness....or Krishna Bhakti, the focus is on the connection with the Supreme or Krishna, which then results in happiness for everyone..... This understanding may help. Hare Krishna 🙏
Nowadays, That title should be the worst mix of intentional delaying wedding age to enjoy and practice free Love-Sex ideology and traditional monogamy marriage system which deals with the duty of supporting family for life. With that irony and hypocrisy, Seolgeojiron or "dish-washing theory" and Pong Pong Nam issue came up for Korean young men. Some men who put high value on traditional virtues and family are seeking international marriage with Eurasian women who are willing to serve only one man from young age to death so suitable for the definition of monogamy marriage system. Other progressive men will avoid monogamy marriage system like European young men so unmarried mother and extramarital child should be accepted normally like Europe in the Korean school and society as well in order to maintain national population. Reference to Cristiano Ronaldo's 4 children, Surrogate mother also should be legal and popular in Korea to overcome ethnic extinction crisis from now on.
 @puganzi  @Mark The solution is to look at this in a more holistic way. Meaning, monogamy sounds restrictive and hence seems difficult to follow for impressionable youngsters. So, firstly the blind imitation of western culture should stop. Second, pride for local culture should be developed. Everything western isn't necessarily great. Thirdly, this specific point you are mentioning about marriage and relationship is due to bodily concept of Life. This is far from the truth. Once it is understood that this body is not us, and the real meaning of Life, then many of the perceptions of enjoyment will change. It will bring about a drastic upgrade to practical Life. This applies to all cultures, not just Korean.  All this can be understood through Krishna Consciousness....It may sound like an unrelated solution but it is.not! All these are part and parcel of KC.  Hope this comes out more openly in S. Korea so the people can fly higher than now.
Sadly I agree... As a Korean American,  I really want the best of Korea and love living here.  Also one thing we cant disregard is  there are amazing creative talent like Bong Jun Ho exists not  because of just hard work and being competitive. There are incredibly passionate, conscientious and brave people who will correct the course of history as a underdog like always.
 @여인태-i9o  그건 니가 국뽕이라 그런거고.. 아직도 현실 파악 안됨? 한국만큼 극심한 경쟁, 눈치 보는 사회가 어딨음?
얘들아 유교는 아무잘못이 없어. 그냥 요즘 한국인들이 오냐오냐 자라서 분수도 모르고 이상해진거야. 내가 배리나인데 결혼은 정우성이랑 하고 싶어해서 그런거라니까?ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 남눈치, 유교 이런거 다 빼고 “ 내가 배리나랑 살면서 생활방식이 다른거에 대해 서로 맞추면서 살아야한다고?” 이게 본심이어서 그럼. 다른 분여에서도 적용이 되는거. ” 내가 쥐꼬리 월급받고 이렇게 열심히 일해야 한다고?“ 이런거임. 그게 싫으면 니가 발전을 해서 니 위치를 올리던지, 그게 아니면 그냥 거기서라도 열심히 살아야지.
 @tyyg9469  It's institutionalized commercially sponsored and sanctioned art that dominates! You lack comprehensive deduction! lol
 @user-FULLJohnson  현실 파악이라.. 한국에서 평생 유투브 보고 짧게 해외 여행으로 가본게 전부일 당신보다 국뽕 아닐테니 걱정마쇼
It’s more than just that, but these are indeed two important reasons.
 @pradhyumnamuralidharan4168  Last time I checked, christianity is the majority religion (after atheism/no religion)
​ @ueckbueck 한국인이 순응적이라고?? 살면서 들은 말중에 제일웃긴말임. 한국역사와 근대사를 공부했다면 그런말못할텐데.. 한국은 저항의 나라야..ㅋ 시위의 나라이고..
그런 추상적인 언어로는 문제를 직시할수없음. 한국의문제의 시작은 정확히 신자유주의와 imf로인해 양극화가 심해지고 각자도생이 되면서부터 초경쟁이 심화된것임. 서로가 경쟁자니까 공동체와 가족이 파괴된것임.  이모든건 한마디로 국가의 정책이 문제인거고 그런 정치집단을 선택한 국민수준이 문제인것임. 더문제는 이걸 모르는 국민이 절반이 넘는다는것임.
I thank Koreans and Korea for the amazing things they make for the world. But I don't want to live in Korea and I feel lucky I was not born a Korean in Korea.   I hope the new generations of Koreans will take the foundations the previous generations have built, and used them as an advantage to build a healthier and happier work cultures.
Just don't forget to blame the north and stand by this system at all costs. God help you when the colonies rebel and stop sending South Korea free resources and the west stops investing to for ideological reasons.
 @tyyg9469  I believe he meant the art industry where domination comes from organizations and corporations utilizing individual talents to conform with their overall objective which is to capitalize on these individuals with help of the resources from these organizations.  Individualism is erased in this sense
Perfect definition. I visited Japan last month and got thinking about this. You defined perfectly well
​ @tyyg9469 Kpop isn't exactly an industry which prioritizes individuality, to put it mildly
 @YOUARESOFT.  how is US best country in the world? For the average person its a nightmare. most live paycheck to paycheck, with no money if a 500$ emergency happens, while the top 1 hoard most of the gdp.
 @doberton  how north? If you go China, you dont want to go back
​ @valentinaapm  countries like Cuba are extremely succesful considering how US has placed every single sanction available to them. China is even better than US for the average person, despite sanctions and insane tariffs. Socialism is definitely best for the majority, while capitalism like US is best for the top 1%.
@pomme_fatale  Please share what are those worst points of Confiscianism? Thank you.
​ gocelts  that's not entirely true. we are what we are, with history, culture, traditions, we want to be better, but it is difficult for us to start with ourselves. As long as we strive to have more and more, this will happen.
​ @seekx2y556 I always thought hard times are the fuel for inventive and imagination. One thing is taking what you have a hand to resolve a immediate situación, but human always have dreams and a desired the best, thatsxwhy we leave the caves. Do you think poor people are just happy being poor? NO . They have the same o more problems than rich people trying to survive just for a day. The problem in Korea is the new rich syndrome.  30 yeas ago they were as poor as the poor Indians and they are afraid to return to that misery again
​ @韩国新羅第三代满洲 no, esa Peoria es algo reciente y que aún ni siquiera esta cinfirmada, traces de Adn solo confirmation mezcla , no origen común. Vietnamitas y Han Chinese son más cercanosxa los Manchus que Koreanos. Manchus descienden de Siberia.,nada que ver con ustedes...😂😂😂😂 dreams
 @mariaaballi-gonzalez3716  So is Manchurian 100% the same as the Korean word order?
 @mariaaballi-gonzalez3716  Why did the Manchurians record their ancestors as Silla of Korea?
But hey, people obsess over k-pop idols  (That realistically they’ll never meet)
I would call it Confutalism. Yup, it sounds futile and fatal.
Confucianism with a bad attitude rather than a good one! In Confucianism, society should be peaceful. You obey your older siblings, parents and boss. Everyone reveres the ruler. In return, they are supposed to look after you. The ideal is to be led by good rulers and bosses, whom the people will obey easily. The problem is that in South Korea, bosses are often bad. Yet the workers still have to obey. I have been criticised and yelled at by Confucianist Korean bosses. They have illegally withheld benefits like pension and health insurance. They have changed the rules at a moments' notice. In Confucianist Korea you can be fired illegally, even if you have gone past the probation period. Bosses are more likely to break the law.
​ @tyyg9469  Well, it's not the artists that are dominant and creative. It is the corporations who found a repetitive formula called K-pop. Seven kids who can sing and dance in unison, choreographed down to the millisecond.  People are expendable. Corporations are not.
⁠ @tyyg9469 Yes, dominating financially & popularity-wise but it doesn’t mean it’s great art. For example, most K-Pop isn’t brimming with integrity & passion but it sells and money is the main motivation for them
 @tyyg9469  no.  You can excel in arts like BTS but be part of a very structured system .  K pop artists and it seems athletes and video game players are being made in an factory type assembly line.  That is not self expression.  One of the reasons i love Suga (BTS) is because he is willing to expose the darkness inside... most kpop groups are bubblegum type songs.
내 생각에는 한국은 갱쟁에 미쳐버린거 같음, 그 이유로는 북한과 아직 전쟁중이고 , 주변에 중국 러시아 일본같은 강한 나라밖에 없는 상황이니 어쩔 수 없는 사회문제라고 생각함
 @tyyg9469  Commercial art is what they dominate in. Which is not exactly creative. It's about finding what the consumer craves and supplying it.
plus Christianism. In everywhere you can find some people wandering and shouting like this Believe in Jesus, or you’ll go to hell
​ @まる-b8b   south korea has secular goverment but most people their are atheist Christian and Buddhist
​ @tyyg9469 individualism and self expression have nothing to do with capitalism,  per se, as far as I can tell.
한국인의 대다수는 유교를 단순히 핏줄과 집안, 나이와 예절을 중요시 하는 사상 정도라고 알고 있다. 이것은 마치 기독교를 교회와 천국지옥, 기도와 구원 정도로만 아는 것처럼 아주 피상적이고 부분적이다. 유교의 체면은 원래는 타인의 시선을 의식한 겉치레나 겉멋이 아니라 낮은 인격 수준에 대한 부끄러움에 관한 의식이었다. 유교사상의 핵심 가르침인 인의예지신은 인간이 짐승과 다른 점에 관한 통찰이고, 체면은 이것을 지키지 못한 것에 대한 부끄러움이다.
Thank you for sharing this insight into your culture as it is today. Wishing you well from the US (...and Capitalism kind of sucks here, too, and makes some people driven to succeed in unhealthy ways and lack empathy for others).
Subtitles are available now, just change the caption language to Korean.
Hit the right hand corner of the screen to get the “cc,” then hold on cc to select subtitle options. Korean is a language to select.
Well, I dont think showing this to you parent will be useful. They did it to you. Its already done. It is what it is. If you hoping they gonna show apologize or something like that, they wont. You already half century too late to change their mind. Even when they apologizing, nothing will change. Their turn to mold a generation already passed. Its your turn now.  The right thing to do is show this to your school, show this to your your kids. Show this to your education ministry. Show this to make next generation different than before you.
The most depressed country is NOT South Korea. The most desperate, morally and spiritually bankrupt country in the world is NORTH KOREA. Those poor people are beleaguered no matter where they turn....May God help them.
 @snails6997  huh?? what makes you think theyre depressed and showing this video to their parents as like a vendetta against them? people just like to watch videos to gain knowledge about their country, dude. and this video is very well made and high quality. it's like watching a documentary, that's all
 @anushkaverma2203  Because I do think like that.  I want to show this to them and shove the fact to their face.  But I realize it useless. Its a vanity. I just want them apologize, but its impossible and I better use it for myself treating my daughter. But part of me still have that desire.  I'm exist. some people like me exist. Im just saying that sentence to people who might have mindset like me.  Also, yeah. I agree with you. This video is very well made and high quality, yes. great casual content for sure. Some other people are just have a great life without depression or pressure from their parents. Good life.
I third this idea and im latino pls add korean subs
That’s a good point. We can not teach our parents even if we know more. We still their children. “Chick can not teach chicken”. Just move on accept your life, and accept them as they are, don’t try to change them. It’s not gonna work anyway
Subtitles are available. You need to change the caption language in your settings. They are there!
problem is we all experienced and weill know about the situation but nobody try to change it
OMG such a good idea! I'd love to share with my parents, siblings and friends who live in Korea..hoping this wouldn't upset them too much.. I see part of my family live with denial.. it 'd may make them feel more self deprecating like what can they do better..
​ @IAmMarkManson You will feel better and the opposite if you visit North Korea.. Even Russia is a nice place with a healthy lifestyle and no mental issues..
Go into the YouTube settings button and turn on Korean captions.
They should never have copied the Japanese. Korea should have been happy with there position.
Honestly, old school Koreans are way too stubborn to take away anything from this. They’ll most likely agree with some aspects, but overall, disagree out of pride. It’s up to the new generation to make changes.
 @user-gp1bt4vm3r  Case in point, there's literally a dude in this comment chain repeating what boomers in Korea say to younger kids; the @ddolddolikim3218 guy is basically implying the OP of this comment should study instead of partaking in useless activities (The useless activity implied to be watching this video).
Tap on the screen and see the setting. Go to language and tap on Korean subtitles. I did it and set the Korean language setting. Hope that helps.
I admire many things about Korea, but there are (as in every country) really bad sides, and one of them is how children and teenagers are drilled - its dystopical. They are robbed of all the joy time which is sooo important for their development and mental health - its child abuse, really (my parents treated me very similar, although I grew up in the west, and it cost me almost all basics of happiness, its a wonder I did not commit sui—de)
Your boss was gaslighting you. Well done leaving the company before it affected you negatively. 👏
True, left after 15 months. It was the toughest and most stressful time of my life
Good job taking care of yourself and recognizing it's okay to leave; we have choices as foreigners. I find your note sad and experienced similar in Japan for my 8 months teaching. Keep your chin up, keep learning from your experiences.
Im overweight woman. And brown skinned. Korea honestly sounds terrifying. Like a special kind of hell. I live in europe, people are polite in public interaction. Jobs are offered on basis of your skill. I would be depressed and suicidal if i lived in an appearance based society. All of us humans have inherent worth and value. No matter what we look like.
I left after 7 months and had never felt so depressed in my life.
Very toxic. People exist for themselves and their families, not for their companies. Id like to know what's the job quitting rate in Korea. They should pursue more individual dignity. If your company's culture is devouring you, just tell your boss to fu.. off and leave without notice. The world needs more of that. It's not anti-discipline it's pro-healthy humans
So your boss was saying “Everyone here is suicidal. Why are you different?”
Ehhh in fairness to her she probably wouldn’t say that. More like “life here’s tough you don’t deserve better” But that message on a mass scale I think drives people to misery that if it gets too intense and hopeless can lead to suicide tragically. So she’s not saying everyone’s suicidal but everyone’s on this continuum of misery that could end in suicide if that makes sense.
"Why are you special?" What an ass and thinks he's rightfully so, when he's literally hiring you to work for him
There was a Korean child, about 12 years old, in my English evening class in South Korea. The Korean manager, when I inquired if the child's health was okay, proudly told me "He is the #1 student, academically in his school!" (his 9 to 5 school, public school). In my class, over months, I FREQUENTLY saw him nearly collapsing, struggling to keep his eyes open and head upright. He appeared on the verge of lapsing into a coma!! I felt tremendous sympathy for him, and said a few silent non-denominational prayers for him, and hoped, against odds, that his health, physical and psychological, could withstand the barrage of classes that he barely endured.
Oh my god what a story. That poor kid. What kills me is the lack of alternatives and how everyone kind of hates this system and yet it persists because it’s so good at killing all attempts to live outside of it. Poor Korea man they really got the worst aspects of capitalism and communism imposed on them.
You did the right thing. You have integrity and values. I was a teacher there for 3 years. I'm all for education but here in Korea, it's turning into a slave manufacturing facility for the chaebols. Creativity, individuality, and self-expression is frowned-upon once you reach 6th grade because you gotta start prepping for entrance exams. I felt as if I was contributing to this cruel system that I could not agree with so I had to quit for my own health.
"Why are you special?" I mean, I guess that's true. Everyone else is being pushed in that direction too.
I think Ethiopia vs Koreans are like opposites. I've worked with Ethiopians for business and they never showed up at the time they chose - they literally showed up 1 day late. I told them I won't move on with them. One is too relaxed, and the other is dying for work
 @jojomythe  that's right! I gotta admit that we are laid back people in general, the huge difference in the work culture makes it easier for us to notice how their system messed them up (not defending Ethiopians)
Were they South Koreans? I thought Ethiopia was hiring North Korean workers
 @Wurfenkopf  there are several South Koreans doing their own business and or working for Korean government organizations like KOIKA
Younger generations aren't aware of this issue rather they are running away from their homeland. 90% of younger generations in Korea wanted to immigrate to other countries. Things are getting even worse now.
I'm ethiopian and I want to tell them they are loved and they need rest and have right to live like they want there should be someone who show them this and also the country should make restrictions on working hour just growth is not gone help that country which have ppl who don't want and have time to marry if like this continues that country gone be erase from map thinking what they going through and having lowest birth rate and I wish they know Jesus loves them
haha fr Im eritrean so BASICALLY THE SAME THING (uh oh i think i started a war) lol anyways my mom used to work at this senior centre with a bunch of koreans and they invited her to a bar to drink, but she said no since she is muslim and they told her " WHAT!! Not even a SIP? HOW do you deal with yout problems??" my mom was so confused lol and didnt know what to say but seeing the sad work culture in their country, no wonder one goes so far as to suicide, and compared to it drinking seems fine.. its quite sad honestly, I hope the younger generation change their system..
The thing is everyone knows the problem but once you really live in this country it feels out of hand. The reasons that foreigners address is true but only a small portion of it. It's a big ambiguous force built up from ages ago, including the history of confucianism in Korea. That's probably why people avoid the convo
Why would they take advice from a country constantly mired in internal conflict? Mind your own business.
Koreans are very proud of their culture; it's extremely rude for an outsider to directly criticize them and their culture.  Your opinions might be warranted but they certainly weren't wanted
​ @BusanNinja  Who cares? Koreans wouldn't hesitate for a second to trash talk any other culture. Also what happened to the "free speech" people are always crying about? People shit talk African cultures all the time, but suddenly when someone criticizes other cultures it's suddenly disrespectful.
​ @Scriabin_fan  I didn't say it was fair or right but it's a waste of time and best avoided if you want to get along with your coworkers..  I lived there for 5 years and you find this out very quickly.
Young people being aware won't change things however. As they grow older they simply continue what their parents and grandparents taught them... they can't help it, it's in their DNA
Isn't it rude to point out social problems of other countries? I have friends from various countries, but I don't bother to talk about their national problems. This is because there are their circumstances that foreigners can't understand, and most people are reluctant to tell others about their internal problems in detail.
​ @user-td5rs9bz8k Not remotely. People discuss other country's internal problems on here all the time. Examples I have watched include the US, UK, China, Japan. Why should SK be different. Your suicide rate is already such an outlier for a developed country. Of course people are curious.
현실은 우리동네에 에티오피아 출신들 엄청 많이 살고있음…ㅋㅋㅋ서울시 동작구임.. 안좋은 나라라면서 그만좀 와라
​@jojomythe Ethiopians are on an infinity loop with time. Not a linear timeline.  When you have all the time in the universe ✨️..it's not going to be  valued.   At work , if you waste energy by not completing the task, or doing wrong, making bad choices Then that's is concerning.   If you go to 1900s Korea it too was on a infinity loop timeline.  Korea put itself on a linear timeline.   So now it will define time by WAR dates not by dynasties.   Who's fault is that?❤
​​ @keepcreationprocess  maybe you shouldn't have watched the video. After all, it's a non Korean making a video essay about korea for the entire world to see. Maybe, take a second before you utter nonsense!
​ @zellalaing5439  Ethiopia was never colonized. Only occupied for a few years by Italy.
Haha I think it's a bit of a generalization to be honest, may Erhiopians value being on time ​ @jojomythe 
​ @user-td5rs9bz8k  it's not rude, people do it all the time. Everyone holds judgement about foreign cultures, sometimes even blatantly bigoted. As Ethiopians like most Africans, we see that as an opportunity to educate others about their ignorance. Or take in their criticism if it is valid and logical
I now i understand the defensive part based on the comments.
​ @azumishimizu1880  That's exactly what I was thinking while reading these comments lol
 @hassan_codes that’s just what they drill into your head in Korea. Even on their “Korean SAT” aka seunung, not getting 100% can mean no prestigious university and then no good job etc.
Sophie.  I'm puzzled. The Korean legal system is very different to ours.   Were you studying International Law?
Yep, I'm nearly finished my masters and we have a lot of Chinese students, and our professors also had to have "the talk" at the beginning of the course basically saying don't expect to get anything above an 80.
Agree. If you're a senior, that is totally heartbreaking. Like... what was it all for?  As a youth, it's terrifying. Like.... what am I looking forward to? Decades of work with in a tunnel with no end or light in sight.
It has to do with what mark said in the previous travel analysis.  If like let's say Brazil is great for it's sensuality, the opposite is also true.  And it's like that for every country you visit.  Korea is conscientious but when you lose productivity then what is the meaning of life. In essence you are a shame unto yourself.  It's logical, given eastern values.
Many family relationships in South Korea are very exploitative, with seniors often getting financially drained and abandoned by their families.
 @ernestkhalimov748  face culture, don't rock the boat, communal yet every man for himself at the same time.
I see this around LA. Seems to me seniors are abandoned after a lifetime of mercilessly pushing their kids. There was probably a lot of resentment brewing over the years.
They're close to death anyway, they fart saw dust most of the time.
​ @adhynugroho9424  i mean everyones gonna die anyway so "what was it all for" applies in either case
 @adhynugroho9424    "If you're a senior...what was it all for? As a youth, it's terrifying...what am I looking forward to? Decades of work...with no end or light in sight."   You summed up modern day anxiety and despair perfectly. It's too bad we have too many leaders who either lack or willfully ignore this insight.
 @gvngbvngiggy  "... everyone's going to die anyway". Is it OK to murder someone because they're going to die anyway? The situation is still messed up and it's causing widespread misery and suicides.
​ @k.constantine you got it backwards. few modern economies rely entirely on filial piety like South Korea.
You can really see it if you visit Seoul. Old people there seem poor and miserable for the most part. When we went out partying in Hongdae, I saw an elderly woman collecting trash to take home, at 2AM with a random drunk dude helping her out. I saw several elderly "hoarders" like this. The section of the video about luxury mixed in with shantytown conditions is very true.
 @dcsteele  I've heard enough horror stories straight from South Koreans themselves. My statement is based on their experiences and how common they say their experiences are. The generations cannibalize each other for money yet the culture keeps them roped in it anyway.
As a 70 years old senior in France, l feel we would need more of some "confusiatist pietal filiation", if l express my thought well. It looks like the culture is to provide children  "inconditional love" and then get very little back in return.
 @RYANLEWIS-pd7zs   "They're close to death anyway, they fart saw dust most of the time" And someday you will, too. Hopefully, people won't refer to you in such a callous way
The companies begin reducing wages of people in their 50's.  It's commonplace.  They also want you to retire here by 55.  Yet people in Korea have a longer life expectancy than most countries.
Also pretty predictable. Makes a lot of sense, actually. I has probably always been that way and always will be. Just because it's sad doesn't mean it isn't predictable. It's when really young people want to off themselves that you know the world is fucked up.
 @Here4TheHeckOfIt  I find that the ones who feel this way about older people don't really get old.
yes I never imagined it'd be the seniors that had the highest rate!
 @k.constantine  I spent 5 years in Korea, so I know the good, the bad and the ugly. Back in the day, parents would give everything to their children, and, in return, the children would look after their parents. In modern times, parents still give everything, but the kids don't want to reciprocate the agreement leaving the elderly financially destitute. It's a very nasty country and this video doesn't look at other aspects like the amount of prostitution over there. People these days seems in awe about Korean dramas, TV shows, food and music, but the country has massive issues and you only have to look at the amount of Koreans living abroad or those who've migrated elsewhere to back that up.
Also the young. I watch kdramas, and might not be 100% true, it does have some truth.
Wish I could raise some capital to help, not just in Korea though. I think investing in tiny house communities and high quality affordable housing with a little bit of partial subsidy could go a long ways. Clean communities where college kids can even move in as long as they are hired on as employees to keep the place clean, do some gardening etc., they're given a place to stay, and keeps the community nice for the elderly. Have a manager on site at all times to assist with bringing in any heavier items for the old etc. remove the pressure to have to earn too much money for the older folks by downsizing their homes but also increasing the quality of life in those homes.
I have always thought that Asians respected seniors. Are there no senior communities or nursing homes with good care for seniors. If not, that is very sad.
 @thebettybassettproduction2458  Selected Report instead of Reply. Apologies. However, I am surprised that some Asian countries are like that. I always thought that Asians respected and cared for seniors. If people are depressed, the quality of life in Asian must change to a much more humane and good quality of life culture. Every life whether human or animal has value.
I think the real reason is that having a suicide system is cheaper on national budget than having a retirement system.
This is why toxic positivity words like "it will get better 😊" is completely bullcrap.
they feel they are a burden to their family so they end it
 @adhynugroho9424 my goodness, that is quite horrific. I’m so sorry. I pray things become more hopeful for us all. ♥️
it's because the east asian mentality especially, sees perseverance and tolerating a lot as some kind of badge of honour and good trait, which i can see how it is a good thing in some respects in this rollercoaster called life. but what happens when you reach breaking point and burn out? where is the support and empathy?   the one good thing that has remained in east and SE asian cultures is the reverence for the elderly and closeness of the family unit and extended family. that's the thing that i think western cultures (although there are still some traditional western cultures, more in central and eastern europe) are lacking. without this, you can feel like a bit of a lost soul without being connected to anything. it can elicit a feeling of emptiness. hyper individualism and the "it's all about me, me, me" mentality is increasing in the west.  on the other hand, it would be a problem if you have a toxic and abusive family. i guess it's about the yin and yang, which comes from chinese influence and the symbol features on the korean flag. there needs to be balance in everything.  i think that historically until now, asian cultures place such an emphasis on academics because that's how people earned respect and status in their societies. it's a bit of a conundrum in the age of kpop, OF and social media celebrities. there are actual alternate routes to become 'successful' more than ever now and it's been made possible through technology.
I would like to you to read about Islam, it will help you to put the staff in place
In India too bro. We kids r shamed for scoring even 93/100. We shd be scoring minimum of 98-99 out of 100. It's insane.
​ @mangamangagurl  It also doesn't make any sense. How are all kids supposed to be on a perfect level for every subject? That either means the standard of education is lowered, so every child can achieve that or you have a country with a highly educated workforce, where everyone is able to study medicine or theoretical physics at university level (which I doubt).
The YouTuber who made this video Western Europe, Northern Europe, Canada, Australia, etc. If you were born in a country with advanced welfare, you can relate to this video... But do the American people, who are marred by all kinds of social problems and the evils of jungle capitalism, really have the right to criticize Korea?
Not a critiscism as much as it is an investigation perhaps
​ @슈팅스타-d9t americans should call out the impact that the US has in SK too, its easy to step out of the conversation when american imperialism and western imperialism been destroying lives and societies
​ @msa565 destroyed? lmao, they choosed to live on what they believed. They're not stupid and guilleble.
 @mangamangagurl  As a Korean I like traveling India.. there are stereotypical beauty & sucess everywhere but I still fee vibrant being with local Indians.. I don't know.. there is slowness through the spirituality aspect..?
 @슈팅스타-d9t  I don't think criticism has to do with where you're from..
 @mhyunsook   저도 한국인인데 제 의도는 한국이상으로 사회문제가 많은 미국사람들이 한국의 단점을 부각시킬 처지는 안된다는 겁니다.
 @슈팅스타-d9t  머 미국사람들 중에도 여러 멘탈리티의 사람들이 있지요. 한국사람들중에도 가장 한국사람같지않게 사는 사람들도 있구요 굉장히 느리고 다른면의 행복의 가치를 두는 차원에서 .. 대한민국의 밖에서 보는 이 작가가 말한 두드러진 성향은 그사람이 어디서 왔건 상관없이 보이는데 안보인다고 말 할 수누없는거죠
 johnfoley4023 that’s exactly the trick they employ…clever way of keeping people in check and under control
I was raised up in sg.. gettin 98 made me cryyyyy now i look bk the society demand standard in sg ..made you obsessed to keep goin on
 @슈팅스타-d9t  This isn't for the purpose of criticizing, but to understand.  It also seems to be trying to help.  When you look at a country that is highly depressed, and all the issues that come w/ that, perhaps being able to understand the root of that problem, can lead to the solution to that problem.  Overall, the response in the comments from Koreans seems to be positive, because people have a deep need to be validated, and for their pain to be acknowledged and not looked down on as mere weakness.
I've also noticed that there's a shortage of Vocational workers as well.  Electricians, Plumbers, Construction, etc.  There's way too much emphasis on competition. For a very small amount of White Collar jobs.  It's just weird.
 @eksbocks9438  In times of economic downturn, the tradesman wins big time.  We always need the plumber and electrician.  They are good paying jobs too.  The white collar guy is nowhere near as vital to the running of our homes and countries.  It's a wise choice to go into trades.  Less education, less money into education, good pay, always needed.
 @lowkeyconvert8971  tell me about balance, Koreans obviously have a work life balance.
 @슈팅스타-d9t  Yes they have the right to criticize anything because they are not authoritarian therefore they have this thing called free speech.
 @슈팅스타-d9t  This is a discussion, an exploration of the serious problem of unexpectedly high suicide rates. Everyone sees and makes judgements no matter where on the status scale one is. Solving the problem by decreasing the suicide rates is the goal. I am from the West and appreciate the many beautiful, thoughtful and wonderful aspects of the East. I feel sad to see high suicide rates anywhere and want people to know they are a person to be loved, not a problem to be solved.
 @msa565  Unfortunately the US is not what it pretends to be and it is dangerous to talk about this honestly at this point in history.
 @슈팅스타-d9t  It’s interesting how you take this as a “criticism”… (I’m a Korean myself.)
​ @dontreplytome it is lol. Those who 'make it' get the fame and money like in SG.
@user-LlLL580 some of us are ethnically Korean but living in or raised in other countries. I was born in Seoul but lived in the US since 2001
You can be happy in any first world country as long as you have decent income.  Rest is totally up to your personality and outlook in your life.  But I do agree, Korea is somewhat dangerous place to be with North Korea ready to invade/Nuke Seoul any time, China also possible aggressor.   Also Korea is not self sufficient in food, so that's a good reason for many koreans to move to other country.
Changes nothing. I've seen a successful Korean man and his friends they're all depressed. I've lived in Korea forn10 years and I'll never forget how depressed I've been throughout. I had no pressure on me, money has been useless to the core! Robotic lifestyles ugh
Your mom's advice doesn't seem very helpful. But I think your country's medical health care system needs to be fully addressing mental health problems publicly not privately. It also needs to be discussed among Korean governments and medical Healthcare establishments in every news media, including internet news.
 @Dachshunds5 ngl a country where they give importance to looks more than talent is gonna be depressing. I won’t be able to survive there. The constant judgement from everyone is gonna make me suicidal.
The best thing for koreans to learn is, "I don't give a fuck" on the extraordinary expectations of my boss/parents/friends. I litteraly mean it. Chill more, let the preassure go from time to time and start living more socially focused. Every day has 24 hours and you should do 8 hours of good sleep, a maximum of 8 hours work where you can give 200% if you like, and 8 hours of something socially else (and a little bit of workout). That will inevitably lead to more happyness and less anxiety.
 @tldw8354  The thing is Koreans can't afford themselves, so they have to work 15 hours a day. No time to sleep. Or it's simply expected of you to push yourself beyond limits to prove yourself to the company. You can say IDGAF in Europe where people don't wanna work past 3pm (seriously, that's rush hour in Slovenia), but the way South Korea is structured doesn't allow you to put your feet on the desk and ignore boss' phone calls.   And Korean social hierarchy can only make it worse when people on the lower end have to constantly bow to someone who looks down on them.
 @edprestoza4099 mental health medicine is still in its beginnings and not so helpful
She wanted you to be better than her it sounds like
I was a teacher in Seoul from 2000 to 2008. I loved it, however the stress felt by Koreans, especially the students was plain to see.  I worked for CDI which payed great but classes ended at 10:00 PM.  I remember one student in particular. He just looked exhausted and I felt like a liar telling him his homework was important. A few weeks later I quit in disgust. High paying job. Excellent conditions. And I was being payed to steal their childhood.
 @Dachshunds5 exactly its so toxic. friends of my bf been literally looking at me and trying to fix something about me " do more workout " - wear your eyebrows different " my bf had this attitude to remove dust from my face each time in public. he did that a way more often than pointing out that im pretty. - its sick! - and the age discrimmination plays a big role as well. they tend to enjoy to drain you down when you reach a certain age and the norm is a sentence that get drilled in your head " you already this & that age " so behavior this and that way!" most likely to be used when the conversation cant find a proper solution then just " pull " it all on the famous " age sentence" - i heard aswell from many koreans that they tell me " they too old " for this and that - thats why they cant do this and that anymore like wt??? - while they been 26 - look and one friend told me: " you cant go to Hongdae " in this special area if you 30 " with a smile. i found that freaking toxic that he fiund it funny while he made a joke about himself cause he is 38 so he wanted just to inform me how " old he is " and how " old " he feels - like what a f. up society it is - people are freaked up about aging - and so i seen guys with surgeryplasters on in seoul fixing their faces with botox. girls with botox checking their faces on every shimmering mirrow and window sideglazing - while looking sad af. - its a sick tired society in which you are reduced to the bare minimum of your appearence - and on top of that: " the jealouse " of everyone the silent envy. and the way they pull themself down if they have nothing reached. " korea has an historical complex " because they got dominated by two enemys in past - i feel until today they found the weirdest wrongest ways to polish themselves fakewise into depression.
it's probably true but that "getting it together" is the HARDEST part!!!~
Sorry to tell you that your mom got it wrong all the way, see things for what they are, no time for bullshit morality.
Wait, Your mom has dealt w/ depression and said that?! Anyone who suffers from depression knows better that it's easily said than done. I can't believe someone who deals w/depression would say such a thing. As someone who deals w/Bipolar, There could be a chemical imbalance w/your brain.
Wait, Your mom has dealt w/ depression and said that?! Anyone who suffers from depression knows better that it's easily said than done. I can't believe someone who deals w/depression would say such a thing. As someone who deals w/Bipolar, There could be a chemical imbalance w/your brain.
 @tldw8354  Exactly. Stop struggling for a world that is already autonomous. Just live.   I hate it as much as anyone because hard work and caring is a big part of who i am but im getting older and while i still care, i can't continue to have this level of angst.
Just curious, as an American, what number of Koreans believe, deep down, that they've truly gotten their shit together? Like how many Koreans have lived up to their own personal expectations of adequacy, if not success and thus released themselves from the prison of inner torment and anxiety that they've constructed inside their own minds?
I wonder if soul-crushing architecture has something to do with it?  America is full of that stuff
It's true, but the first 'shit' you should get together is your mindset and feelings, so it's a vicious cycle)
but your country is really poor. everything cost a lot. work hard and you still have little.
​ @neshwhat702 yeah they do plastic surgery like other country people go to barber
Technically true, if you interpret it in a holistic manner -  accept and be kind to yourself, appreciate the things around you, live a healthy balanced life, strive to be better, but not afraid of failure.  What she probably meant though is enter SKY, pass the Samsung exam and work for them. Buy a flash apartment, luxury cars and goods. Have a good looking spouse and smart children in the top schools who will do exactly what you did.
Hurry up and do everything perfect; now. I refuse to live like that.
​@lazyscorpion3889  can you explain what do you mean with "money has been useless to the core"
I'm Canadian and a bunch of people here are depressed lol It's the society in a whole not some countries, social media is mostly at fault.
Sometimes it is not that easy. Some depression is from chemical imbalances in the brain. Medication can help.
Get your shit together seems rather fluid.  Different meaning for different folks. I have a handful of Korean friends here in the US.  My impression is that they are very driven to achieve whatever that they have set their minds up to do. Very driven. And often achieve their goals. I don't know whether that's enough though.
The true solution is very simple… we were created by the God of the Bible to find fulfillment in Him and as we all seek fulfillment in other created things and not the Creator; we struggle, achieve them fall into anxiety and depression due to the God ordained order in creation dictating what we truly need and what will happen if we seek other idols or nonnegotiables.. Koreans are raised with a super performance mindset so the aspirations of achievement and excellence and the achievement of ultimate goals all lead to an anxiety stemming from these pressures and the fleeting happiness in success. So know who you are created in the image of, seek the Creator from who you came, know Him daily and enjoy Him first; then the other pleasures in life can be enjoyed in a reasonable way.
As a Korean-born immigrant, I find that Koreans are very closed-minded due to Confucianism. They are overly conscious of others' opinions, and highly competitive.
.......so if you are not gifted, blessed or whatever, you're dead or are asked to do the right thing 💀
In u.s. that's what my family even extended said. Brother was alcoholic. Mother secretly on meds. Cousin ended up on meds. People dis you so they don't look at themselves.
 @neshwhat702  Appearance-Oriented societies are a lot like putting on a straight-jacket. It's not healthy for the human soul, or at least not for most of them, anyway. Other than basic hygiene and expectations of public decency, people should be themselves.
Oh my God... I'm laughing so hard but that's how my Korean mother is too.
​ FK-KOR aaah, a sharp eye right here. You're that rare person I would actually befriend.
 @edprestoza4099  that cant be done when your societies values perceives it as your personal failure not theirs.
 @tomaccino  that is thep art i could not put up with.  The hierachy by age.  So your boss can be totally wrong , lazy and stupid and you cant say anything.
It the little good feeling boost of financial security.   Now it okay, any available time, small moment, or holiday/peers celebration is the way to counter going down toxic work habits.  I suggest make your work fun or find a work that is fun
Thats really awful to hear smth like this from mom. Hope youre fine. Take care❤
Major Depressive Disorder is genetic and inheritable. I’m so sorry there wasn’t a healthier approach to mental health in your family, and that you have the burden of breaking its cycle by changing the attitudes towards mental health. It’s not easy. 💜
Truly, a lot of Asian parents (mine being Chinese) see depression as a sign of weakness, and as something to get over. It is as if the worsening of late-stage capitalism and the ever growing lack of proportionality between hardwork and reward, and reconciling progress with conservative norms, etc. isn't jarring (at best) and depressing (at its worst).
No one has sympathy for depression in korean society.  It is seen as complaining.  As a korean American, I wonder how hard my life would’ve been if my parents didn’t move to the US.  Even in the US, the Koreans generally do not have any sympathy for depression or hardship.  It’s seen as “not working hard enough”.
I think that your mother put pressure on you so that you wouldn't become unsatisfied like herself. She should have focused on her own dilemmas and solving them instead of putting pressure on you to perform perfectly well. Start by sharing your problems either spiritually or with other folks to release stressors and feel bonds.
vreselijk dat je dat over je eigen moeder moet schrijven triest schaam je want zo werkt het helemaal niet want anders was je moeder wel anders geweest!!
I'm not Korean, but my mom used to tell me that I was sad (I've always had depression) because I wasn't busy and had time/luxury to think about my feelings. As a kid, I thought deeply about it and figured she didn’t know better because my grandparents were farmers and worked hard their whole lives. We didn't discuss anything, but in the back of my mind, I thought of the best ways to care for myself and my sanity. As for her, I think she worked herself into an early grave. I noticed she had her own mental health struggles, but she hid them well, along with her breast cancer, which we didn’t know about until it was too late. She kept working and moving, only stopping when she had to sleep.  Watching her and other family members, I promised myself I’d be happy when I grew up. Now, in my weaker moments, when I compare myself to others, I sometimes wish I had bigger goals than just being happy - maybe I’d be richer or further along in my career. But honestly? I think I’m in a really good place, where I’m reasonably happy and content, even while managing my depression.
​@lazyscorpion3889 yes/no being successful no doubt makes a difference, but doesn't mean yu are fully good until you change how you thing. Now if you naturally have depression than different story
​ @mimimi230 I really hope they can change that perception of themselves and use every opportunity to live a contended and happy life. Choose to go for their dream irrespective of Age, looks and societal expectations! Just living for oneself and happily!❤
In my country having a problem like that, the governement gives Handicap Permits and have a bunch of discounts on everything :))) This incentiviez other people to work for them aswell extra :)
Sending compassion to both you and your mom. Wishing the best for your both.
Yes but if you fail, it will be much harder to participate in Korea’s ‘economic miracle’ and develop a career in the Chaebol’s, in Western level jobs, earning Western level salaries.  All the markets, small mom and pop stores alluded to in this video serve Korea’s ‘underclass’ of people who live middle income lifestyles, akin to those in much poorer countries like Mexico.  This contrast is much starker than in the West.  In the UK, you can earn middle professional manager salaries by learning a trade, like being a plumber.  That isn’t the case in Korea, you’d earn far less.  A professional outside a Chaebol would earn maybe a half to two thirds what the same person doing the same job inside a Chaebol would, the tradesman even less than that.
Plus traditionally in Confucian culture, your status in society determined how the laws applied to you.  There was no concept of universal human rights, it was not a dignity culture where each person had ‘worth’ protected in law regardless of who they were or what they did. Park Jung Hee realised a system like this wouldn’t sustain a modern industrialised society, so copied Western legal systems to encourage industry.  However, these institutions became an overlay on old Confucian feudal legal systems and their values sustained in culture.  Witness what happens to Chaebol leaders who fall foul of the law.  Prosecuted under the Western legal overlay, then pardoned by the President, because their status makes them above the law.  Status pays, opens doors, determines who you can associate with, which is important  in a 2 speed society dominated by Chaebols.   Sure this sort of thing exists everywhere but its really exaggerated in Korea compared to the West.  You can’t understand modern Korea without understanding the Chaebol system, there are interesting video’s on youtube about this.
Same thing is happening in China. Chinese journalists are sadly comparing both countries. Hope both east Asian countries can improve in positive way, and younger generation can have a better and balanced way to enjoy the economic growth.
so true. But also a fact that if you ARE  average, you most likely won't be able to afford the life of what other countries perceive as "average". Things like kids, a house, etc will be  unaffordable, which is why people try  so hard to go above and beyond
As I wrote above on a separate response to the reportage, you are missing or ignoring the intrinsic setbacks we all Koreans face. You can't qualify at the huddle race runnig under the huddle.
Getting 50, I must agree with you. All because of F. Stupid education. It killed my creativity and my F. Free time to kill my time to create things. It was 90s. No doubt how stupid Korean Exam for entering university.
Unfortunately, education while important half of it is a waste and people are supposed to achieve all their dreams before 30 or they are too old and finding a job becomes more difficult.
I noticed exactly this while working in Korea. The pressure was astronomical, I felt so bad for my students.
 @greenytaddict Given what you already know, would you say that South Korea’s societal pressures are worse than those in Japan? Or would you say they’re the same?
It's no measure of success to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society :)  If the society is feeding these children as cogs to the machine, it is not a failure or even 'average' to do the opposite, it is healthy and that should be the standard.    If everyone was at least getting a great standard of living after all this competition that's one thing but it's another when they're struggling financially and are physically/mentally unwell because of it.
But remember, that is what brought to where Korea is today. The miraculous economic boom didn’t come just free.
I want to tell something Even in India if you earn 12000-13000$ in village life in Himalayas you can live a peaceful life 😊 I am Indian living in Himachal Pradesh in Himalayas Village Every one here is peaceful and Cooperative Village Life in Himalayas everybody is peaceful living here 1 month gives you a new true purpose of Life 😊 Edit Depression here is 0 or less People Here Help others  This is a dream Village for me and Heaven for me  After 35 yrs age of me I move to this village now I am 50 still doing good 😊
Not just that if you dont really want to be part of the "competition" like just want to work in the trades like bricklayer or welder who can easily make more than the average salary of medium size company office worker its just that if you dont work for what is perceived as respected jobs (white collar) the whole society just looks down on you as failure. From your social status to dating the whole of society is like that.
The tests are not the real issue. The biggest bullies always come from entertainment business. They judge people on looks and figures and peer pressure them into feeling uncomfortable being their natural selves.
Similar situation in Romania. Dictatorship teaches competition for their interests... Like improve the economy, all about money
Same goes for China. Maybe it’s influenced by Korea and Japan? I actually think it's the result of a confused culture. The countries and regions affected by confusease are all the same, such as China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Japan and South Korea, and even Vietnam.
​ @寅-m2t 지나친 경쟁으로 한국과 한국인은 병들었습니다. 중국과 다른 아시아도 비슷하다니 슬픕니다. 한국처럼 심하게 병들기전에 변해서 행복하기를 바랍니다.
It's interesting that in many lists of best education systems the top two tend to be Korea and Finland. And their systems are complete polar opposites, Finland doesn't give homework, their schools are very casual but they top the lists very often.
It is fundamentally due to scarcity of resources. Crowded people should have competed with each other for limited resources in the small territory. Only one solution to this is reunification. And connection through land freight railway to China, Russia, Central Asia and Middle East. Only economy of scale and revolution in logistics can basically improve status-quo in Korea. President Park planned and promoted similar project like this (also known as Eurasia Initiative) but this irritated global establishments who already control global maritime trade route.
Now we are seeing the monsters that Korean society and educational system created. Doctors are striking for weeks in Korea . They are abandoning patients. This is not their 1st strike. They strike not because of lack of money  but because of wanting more money. They are monsters!
The situation you described is almost the same in China, Im Chinese and I used to study in UK for 5 years. Met friends from different cultures such as Korean, Jpanese and Indian. I feel like we have the same nervous, anxiety, pressure towards future.
It’s the same in the USA. I am constantly asked by parents what their 5-year old can do to increase their chances of  getting into an Ivy League. I interview students who have devoted their life to curating a resume that will appeal to the admissions team. Many believe that if they don’t attend Harvard or Yale, they’re doomed - as if these schools came w/ a guarantee for success and happiness. The focus needs to shift. The real issue is creating an economy that values all contributors and affords everyone at least a living wage.
But the reality is that there are only so many of those top positions, so many if not most will feel like they failed, or were lied to. Maybe both. Economies only have so much demand for high paying white collar jobs.
Malaysia is very similar. Too much focus in class rankings while in secondary school. Imagine from 13 to 18 in a batch of 100+ plus yearly students, you are regularly ranked close to the last places. What does that kind of shame and embarassment do throughout young people's lives? Mental health issues naturally emerge in epidemic levels.
Why don't more people , especially men just say they hate school and dont give a f u ck?
It is ok to be average as long as you keep contribuiting to your community. The thing is the overpriced life wages.
Thank you for putting the time and effort into this message so that we can learn more about Korea's struggles.
America is what you stated at the end. Alot of teens are more chill, not in rush to go to college and college isn't always the best choice for everyone. Now americans have different problems with weird topics in identity, politics, and racism. I guess good thing is we passed that stage that Koreans are in now.
각 나라에는 1$에 대한 환율이 있다. 미국돈 1달러가  나라마다 갖는 가치가 달라지는 이현상. 같은 노동의 시간을 들여도 그 나라의 국력에  따라 그 값이 달라진다.  그 기준점이자 룰을 정하는나라,  세계 유일한 초강대국 미국만이 그 가치를 스스로 만들어낼 수 있다. 한국이 수억의 돈을 찍어내도 그걸 미국에 가서 햄버거 하나 살수없다. 그러나 미국이 1달러 지폐를 인쇄하면 실제로 그 지폐는 우리나라에 와서 자원을 살 수가 있다.  이 차이점이다.   우리가 그토록 끝없는 경쟁에 경쟁체제의 교육을 시켜서 한명의 뛰어난 인재를 만들어내는 이유가 여기에 있다. 달러를 벌어올 수 있는 인재를 만들어내지 않으면 우리나라는 그 순간 굶어 죽기 때문이다.  경쟁보다 더 나은 방법으로 세계 속에서 살아남을 수 있는 인재를 교육시키는 다른 방법을 알지만 정책적으로 펼칠수가 없다.  예를 들어 "창의성"을 발휘할 때까지 한 사람을 지속적으로 기다리면서 교육시킬 시간과 자원이 한정된, 한국이라는 천연자원과  핵이  없는 나라는, 빠르게 교육시키는 주입식 교육정책을 펼질 수 밖에 없는 것이다.  그  폐해가 지금의 노인빈곤율 ,자살율 1위라는 심각한 부작용으로 나타나고  그로인해  0.6%라는 출산율을 기록하는.....망해가는 나라가 되었지만....  .....과도기라고 믿고싶다..... 행복의 기준이 1등이 아니라 공존이라는 올바른 가치관의 정립이 통용되는 한국이 될수있도록, 과학기술의 발전으로, 사람이 더이상 자원과 능력의 유무에 상관없이 생존을 영위할 수 있는 한국이 되는 날에, 행복에 올바른 가치관이 소유가 아닌 존재라는  가치관에 눈을 돌리는 그날이, 한국에도 곧 올것이라고 믿고싶다. 핵융합과 AI의 실현으로.
Yes you are right.l am a 19 year old indian girl who is preparing for medical entrance exam(NEET)the competition in this exam is insane.Every year young students attempt suicide for not crossing the lines made by society.Iwant to be strong enough for facing the result if incase I failed.But I am giving my best so at last there will be no regret.
The fact that there are so many people from different countries in Asia saying they share the same problem is astoundingly sad.   This really is a rapidly developing/developed countries' curse.
Meanwhile in Indonesia, if you past 25th years old your chance got a job decrease about 80% since in indonesia almost company ( about 95%) age requirement maximum are 25th years old. Past 30? Well good luck getting job in company
I live by a much desired public STEM school,  I was curious why the students are majority Asian - mainly Korean.  What makes Asian students so different from the other ethnic groups?   This helps explain the drive.  It's sad that the students may not be able to enjoy their childhood due to being pushed so hard.
Yeah I can’t imagine living in such a broken country, work life balance is important, not too much of the other and u will be happy and healthy.
Comments like this make the song "Dope" from BTS gain much more sense
not only that but the hierarchy too, and the need for younger people to respect the elders or those who are just a few years or even one year older, in school etc, a lot of violent bullying because of this age and respect thing
 @disarchitected yeah we know all of that? he just said this needs to change in korea 💀
"almost everyone tells these kids that entering a good university will guarantee them a prosperous and happy life" - they lie.
this comment is so meaningful, you are a very wise person!
After all, life is too short to be constantly stressed. It's time to learn to relax and enjoy life, as we only get one chance to live it to the fullest.
If this is the overall message, no creative people, musical people, etc. Every one is different. Of course, depression.
I personally don’t think it’s just the education system. Hyper-competitive education system is not uncommon in Asian countries, like in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India, etc. Also, the Korean education system has always been competitive, and the Korean culture always emphasized getting into prestigious universities, and scoring higher than all their peers for decades and decades.   But today, the suicide rate is higher than ever, the birth rate is lower than ever. It has been like this only the last ten years or so that South Koreans started calling the country “Hell Joseon” and today’s “MZ generation” is more miserable than ever.
It will be "okay" also when it allows to make living wage.
​@tamere88077 That is sooo  sad. Because without tradesmen/women ( gender equality) where would south Korea be?
I have some Korean friends, also one of my cousins marries to Korean guy and live in Busan now.  My cousin mentions that when she meets someone for the first time, she is always asked which school did she graduate or where her husband works.  I was not surprised to hear that because many Koreans ask me about my academic background and the company name on the first meeting. It makes us feel like we are evaluated or compared.  Also, I imagined this could happen any time if you live in Korea.  That might make you feel that you have to graduate from SKY or have to work at investment banks or conglomerates. I am sorry to tell you these, but assume that Koreans need to quit the habit to evaluate others based on status or school.
And at the end of the day, who benefits from the student? The future employer, not the employee
Yes. This!!! Its okay to fail.... its ok to be normal. Guys. Life is short
There is someone on utube that is a private tutor at one of these  hogwan  schools...4 years of  college and he makes $2,000 dollars or less a month..and holds one on one classes from 4 pm to 12 midnight. I would be depressed every second. I earn $5,252 a month  before taxes as a primary teacher.
Not Asian but the best thing my parents did was accept any grade from me that wasn't failing (I was a highly gifted kid anyways, but didn't get A's in any subject I disliked). I still ended up taking college level classes in high school, in one of the best public schools in the country. The amount of workload was unfortunately college level too and it crushed me! My grades weren't low they just weren't enough to get into Ivy league and if my parents insisted all A's I would have lost it. If I had a kid I would have the same mentality. Congratulate them on passing and get them tutoring for any classes they truly struggle with, but not shame or belittle them.
​ @disarchitected  I don't think Confucius stated the relationship between your status and how the law treats you. How the law treats different status is up to the government.
I think the lack of small business owners is the cause of the current situation. Not sure if my point of view is correct, but I think that's the case in China.
Completely different situation here in Germany. Germans are really lacking ambitions, you can see the result. We are losing everywhere, education, industry, engineering… it seems like without this mindset, people will get poor. So it appears that there is no perfect way for everyone.
Change must come from the new generations. The old ones just will not change their wrong mindset.
 @Zyloflux001  Spanish people or italians have the same like gdp and much MUCH better quality of life and balance in life.
But I don't understand for all that study the US will pay better
Very sad to put children under such pressure. Why though? Completion with N Korea? I do not understand.😢
Well being average is not okay. We should all strive to be special, even if it’s not up to everyone’s standards
옹... 직접 영어로 쓰신검가요??? 대단하시네요😮😮 만약 직접 쓰신게 아니라고 해도 깊은 생각을 가지고 계시네요!
I did EPIK for a year too, this was back about 9 years ago. I was in a very small county in the south of the country. I agree, and most of my friends my age there tell me the same stuff. You either find a niche where you can be just ok in, knowing you're not special, or get out and carve your own path.  Majority of my Korean friends envy America not because the culture or politics or food is "better" but at least you can be who you want to be and be accepted and find success yourself, without getting beaten into the ground from day 1.
Yeah, the thing is that they don't believe they can have another option. I'm colombian living in Japan (6 years) and I realized that I didn't know what loneliness was until I came here, despite knowing japanese I don't talk more than a sentence in my work every day... Of course I got my PhD and that's the end, I'll leave this place by September. I've been able to reach this point because I knew I could go back to my country where my family supports me, if not I don't know what could have happened to me, specially during the pandemic.
Ya, I would wholeheartedly agree with everything you said. I was with GEPIK. I enjoyed my time in Korea as a foreigner. It's rough when you see the harsh reality for your Korean friends. I think they were very nice people but boy oh boy does their country have a lot of problems. :(
i did hagwon for 2 years and it was hell. horrible culture there
 @SPONGEBOB20    Wonderful Korean People - come to the USA where we will be your friend & appreciate you for being you - even if you are pretty average!
I'm sure you positively impacted those students. Your courage and efforts were not in vain.
God forbid if ur not fair . They r particular about skin . Its always lookism
No mention about maintaining "perfect godlike image" requirement to those who are successfull.
warm hugs to you from the usa. i hope you can find someone who understands you & your trials & accepts you without judgment. the world is complex; and you have shown much courage in seeking help.
High expectations can be a debilitating feeling when we don't meet those expectations.
취직하기 어려운 사회인거 같아요.. 막상 전 취직은 했지만 월급은 적고 책임은 무한이리 살기 팍팍함을 느낍니다.  전혀 글쓰신분의 잘못이 아닙니다. 꾸준히 산책하시고 쉬시면서 몸과 마음 회복하시길 바랍니다.
나를 나약하고 실망스러운 존재로 보는 부모님…이게 제일 견디기 힘든것같아요. 그래서 부모님과 속을 터놓고 얘기하지를 못하네요. 항상 괜찮은척 강한척 해야 무시를 덜 받으니까. 이제는 그런 시선을 보내는 사람들을 속으로 모지리라고 생각하면서 자기방어 하는 중입니다. 내 인생은 한번 뿐이고 나를 조건없이 사랑해줄 수 있는건 나밖에 없으니까, 힘내봅시다.
你很棒啊！英文这么好👍 父母的本意是想你更好，原谅他们难听的话吧，中国有句古话“有则改之，无则加勉”（for other people’s blame, if you did do it wrong, correct it；if you had no fault, just treat it as an encouragement)，毕竟你自己的生活要由你自己决定，他们不可能陪你一生。凡事岂能尽如人意，但求无愧我心（It’s impossible to fulfill everyone’s wishes, at least I know I tried and had no guilt in my heart)
You (Koreans) have bi-lateral visa programs with many Western nations; leave Korea and return only for the holidays if you have to. It's not worth ending your life over a temporary situation you find yourself in when you have the power to exist and thrive somewhere else. You seem to have a good command of English so you're already halfway there.
Please, consider moving to a western country which may value your skills and have more freedom! I know we need our family and depression for being away from them is also dangerous but the way it's going for you there seems to be even worse. However, only you can truly evaluate which would be worse. There's also a chance  that , if you succeed,  you may even be able to invite your parents to live there with you but we know some are not willing to leve their homeland even if their successful child invite them to live with him.
Please don't give up. Life can throw surprises at you and the world you see is not all there is. It is completely possibly for life to suddenly transition into something more fruitful. I hope you will find that there are more people who understand and accept you than you think. When I moved to a different country, I found that the ideals in one country were completely flopped in the other country. People's opinions of you can change all the time. On one day, good, and on another day, bad. Their opinions, however, don't change your worth. And you are worth more than your career success.  One may have qualities that the other lacks, and the same person will lack qualities that the other person has. Don't underestimate yourself!! You'll get to where you need to be.
Try to travel, try to go to a 3rd world country, what you will see, learn and live will definitely give you a new view of life.
It is so difficult when your parents don't understand and just add to the heavy emotional burden you carry. If at all possible, find or create a support group of others who are courageously facing up to their mental health, even two or three others, to meet regularly to encourage each other and listen to each other with compassion and understanding. Creating a new network of support can really help compensate for the lack of support in your natural network. I send you the warmest wishes from Canada, and the biggest hugs (we are big on hugging here, it's good for our mental health, lol!)! I also want you to know, as someone who has suffered from severe depression myself, that putting one foot in front of the other, small steps, whenever you can, will help. What will help most is to find purpose and meaning and support, possibly in different areas of your life. I looked at it as re-building how I lived, and it's working 🙂
I have not yet travelled to Korea. But to all Koreans, I am proud of you, for all the efforts and hard work you did in your life. Many people in other Developed countries don't put the same efforts. If your family don't cherish you, just know that you're far ahead than most Asia country, even if they tell you that you're the most useless person in South Korea (provided you did work hard to improve yourself). 🫂🌿
글쓴이분 정말 힘내세요! 한국에서 답을 찾을수 없다면 장소를 옮기는 것을 비슷한 경험자로서 저의 온 마음을 담아 적극 추천합니다...
As an American I cannot really relate to depression. You probably should switch countries. Majority of us out west are actually very relaxed. If you visit the coasts you might find people seem less so.
Is this chat gpt translated English? Looking as a Victorian English.
After graduating from a top university I faced unemployment for 2 years, it was one of the hardest times of my life, people started treating me like I was good at nothing, almost giving me pity looks, my own mother was not an exception !  I was super lonely, depressed and broke ... I isolated myself from everyone because I hated their constant questions about me finding a job Anyways, 2 years later I finally landed a great job ! And everyone started treating me better and I felt the hypocrisy  What I want to say is to never link  your value as a human being to a job or to your grades !  I believe in you please never stop believing yourself ❤
Your parents should see you as a (loved) person, not an investment. But they are no different from many other people in the world who are not even capable of loving their own children. But you can, indeed must, see yourself as a person. You probably have many qualities that no one cares about, but you must. Chase and find your value and be happy that you are not an unconscious cog in a blind machine. Good luck. (You don't have to do anything, just live.)
We r worthy like everybody bc we rchildren of God. Our worth is  ot depending on what we achieve. Read myth of normal by Gabor Mate please
Wishing the best outcome for you, Anton. Just remember, no amount of bull-shit they try to tell you matters. What matters is that you are doing something you feel good about achieving. How arrogant of these individuals to think their opinions of you matter. You are the one who decides what is good for you and what you want to do in business (or maybe business is not interesting to you?). You get to decide this and the rest of them don't have a say in it.   If your parents tell you that you are weak and disappointing, then turn around them and tell them THEY FAILED YOU with their shitty, abusive parenting, because they failed to love you unconditionally (which is actually true and research backs this up). If they had loved you appropriately, you would'nt be depressed. They failed, not you. This is true for most all narcissistic parenting.
ㄹㅇ 영상보다가 그 부분 보고 움찔함; 농담이랍시고 외적인부분 슬쩍 까내리다가 또 나름 칭찬한답시고 "근데 실물이 더 잘생겼네요" ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ  외모평가를 재치있는 농담인것마냥 툭툭 하는 부분마저 너무 한국스러움^^ 심지어 정신과 의사들이..ㅋㅋㅋ
저도 외모 칭찬 자주하지만 이건 진짜 좀 놀랐음... ㅋㅋㅋ 자기들은 그걸 선의의 아이스브레킹이라고 생각했을껀데 외국에선 그런 평가질 자체를 초면에 조크로도 잘 안하는편인데 ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ 자기들은 그것에 대한 전혀 인식이 없다는거 ㅋㅋㅋㅋ  한국이 평가질이 진짜 좀 심하구나 하던 모먼트 ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 남 와꾸도 초면에 바로 조크로 틀어버리는데 평상시는 어떨지 ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ 당연한거고...
I'm Korean, That was really embarrasing. Even they are psychologist they didn't realize what's wrong with them. I reckon they thought that was a good joking or compliment. That's really rude mention.
와 저도 그부분 진짜 놀랬어요. 다짜고짜 외모평가라니 그래도 정신과 의사라서 기본적인 교양이나 상식은 있을 줄 기대되는건데
이러니까 이 나라가 답이 없는 거예요. 사람을 사람으로 대하는 게 아니라 무슨 상품 평가하듯 하고 있어요. 정말 지겨워요..
맞아요 진짜 놀랬습니다.. 한국은 저게 문제 ㅋㅋ 문제인지도 모르고 말하는 것이 문제 .. 외모 뭐 어쩌라구요;;
별 거 아닌 거 가지고 하나하나 문제삼고 난리치는 바로 이런 태도들이 한국의 정신건강 수준을 잘  보여주는 거...히스테리로 가득한 사회..
히스테리로 가득한 사회가 아니라 이런걸 아무렇지않게 하니까 히스테리생기는거임; 외국에서 일히는데 가끔 한국인들 마주칠때마다 아무렇지 않게 외모 언급해서 진짜놀란다 외국에선 걍외모에 대한 언급자체를 안함;;;
​ @sspark2001 님이나 윗댓사람들이나 나나 이게 마크맨슨 작가가 영상에서 지적한  "유교문화에서의 상대방에대한 판단하는 문화는 극대화" 된 부분임
저도 영상 보다가 이 부분 보고 놀랐습니다. 한국을 살기 힘들게 만드는 것이 바로 저 개인에 대한 바운더리를 쉽게 침해하는 외모평가 문화인데, 마치 시연이라도 하시듯 그것을 하시는 게 보기 좋지 않았습니다. 다른 사람들도 아니고 정신과 의사분들이 그러시니 무척이나 놀랐습니다. 아무리 끝이 칭찬으로 끝났을지라도 무례하게 보였습니다. 저 분들도 나름 우리나라를 정신적으로 풍요롭게 하려고 노력하시는 분들인데도 한국의 큰 문회적 분위기는 거스를 수 없는 걸까요. 여러가지 생각이 드는 장면이었습니다.
잘생겼다 이정도는 걍 인삿말이지.. 한국은 얼굴작다 키가크다 이런식으로 세밀하게 들어가니까 이게 문제지
다 조선에서 온갖 평가질 듣고 자랐고 어떻게 보면 의사든 잘나가는 무슨 사업가든 연예인이든 조선식 품평회에서 승자의 위치를 차지하려고 부단히 노력한 사람들인데 더하면 더했지 거기서 자유롭기가 쉽지 않겠죠. 저분들 세대 생각하면 지금보다도 훨씬 덜 조심하던 시대고.. 저사람들은 의사보다는 셀럽으로 보는게 더 적절할텐데 품평회에 이미 절여졌겠죠...
​ @hjjin8045  수십년전 노인네들이 조선 조선 거리던거도 못고치고 따라서 조선조선 거리면서 뭔 깨인척이냐
 @arianahaart5457  풍자를 왜 올드스타일로 하냐고 한국인은 안바뀐다고 역설하면서,,주장과 본인행동이 상충되잖아 이해안가냐?
정말 의사들은 사람의 생명을 존중하고 도와줘야 할 사람들인데 정신 분야 전문가들이라는 분들께서 손님한테 저러는거 보니까 정말 제가 수치스럽네요.
제가 동치미에 나오는 사람들 다 넘 싫어하거든요. 동치미에 나오는 패널들다 교회로역겨져 있지만 아이러니하게 유교사상에 찌든 사람들만 나오는듯요. 저 의사들도 나오죠. 채널에 그 프로 잡힐때마다 넘 역겨워요.
외모평가는 좋게든 나쁘게든 뭐든 무례하고 천박하다는 생각이 아예없는 것 같다. 저런사람들이 정신과 의사라고 누군가를 치료하려는 것 자체가 아이러니고 공포스럽기까지 하다 -_- 하 ㅠ
 @Holleuja or when mention  appearance, the rule is “if you have nothing nice to say, don’t say any thing”
평가 자체가 나쁜건 아니지. 잘생겼으면 잘생겼다 칭찬해 주고 잘하면 잘한다 칭찬해 주는게 맞는 거임. 문제는 질했어도 나쁜점을 끄집어내고 어느정도 생겼어도 못생긴 부분을 끄집어내서 지적질하는게 나쁜거지 칭찬 자체는 나쁜게 아님. 오히려 장려해야지 정신과 의사로서.
 @dlee6976  한국인들은 이렇게 외모평가를 해도 칭찬이니 괜찮다 이런 마인드가 기본이잖아ㅋㅋ 이걸 외국에선 기괴하게 본다니까?
 @snali9762  외국에서 기괴하게...안보는데? 외국 어딜 얘기하는 거임? 그리고 글은 왜 자꾸 지워지냐?
우리나라가 동방예의지국이란 말이 이해가 안 갑니다.. 진짜 중국이랑 다를 게 없는데 말이죠
 @monologue82  머리 크기는.. 아시아에서 다 하지않음?? 그리고 니가 지금 하고있는게 남의 나라랑 평가하고 있는 거 아님? 왜 남의 나라랑 비교함?
네이트판만 봐도 아이돌 목길이 팔길이 가지고 조롱짤 만들고 이상한 만화 캐릭짤 가져와서 '얘 이거 닮았음 ㅋㅋㅋ' 앜ㅋㅋㅋ 대박 추천 128 ㅇㅈㄹ 하다 일반 여성이 얼평 당한거 올라오니까 다 같이 분개함.... 이게 한국임
That's right. it's very rude to say that look like an actor
I think it’s bizarre people in Korea feel they need to comment on others appearance at all.  It’s a boundary crosser and is considered rude in the West. Please mind your own business and if you have nothing nice to say, don’t say it
 @sspark2001 별거가 아니라고요 ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 이러니까 사람들 병드는 거 아녀 ㅋㅋ 맨날 성형이나 하고 .. 연예인들 왜 성형하겠노 ㅋㅋㅋ
그냥 조크아님? 빠니보틀 여행하는거보면 외국인들 말장난 많이치던데 오히려 한국보다 더 맵게
ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 농담을 농담으로 못받아들이고 판사마냥 지적질하는 이런게 유교의 shame 문화입니다 ㅋㅋㅋㅋ
모두가 다른 이들을 평가하는 사회. 다만 혹시 마음이 아프셨다면 그 고통을 저도 겪어보았기에 잘 알고 있습니다. 다만 그 고통을 준 다른 사람에게 뭐라 할 수 있지만요, 고통이 무엇인지, 어떠한 감정인지 바라보셨으면 합니다. 그 속에서 빛나는 내면과 성숙해질 수 있는 기회를 발견할 수 있을 것이거든요.
​ @lynnda64589  애초에 동방예의지국이 중국이 지들 말 잘 듣는다고 돌려깐 말임 무슨 한국이 세계 예절 대회 1등 한 줄 ㅋㅋ
있는 그대로 한국인들 인식수준을 잘 보여준 것 같았는데 뱉어놓고 뿌듯해 하는 웃음이 블랙코미디 같았어요ㅋㅋㅋㅋ
 @dlee6976  In the West (or at least here in Australia) it would be considered awkward, if not rude, to make positive comments about someone's physical appearance. It might feel nice to the person receiving the positive comment, but it would generally not be viewed positively by any third person observer.
 @budawang77  I think it's all depends on person. I met plenty of Aussies and they don't seems to mind any compliment on their outlooks. However, I did come across a black guy who didn't like to be told that he looked strong and well built. Maybe it's a racial stereotype thing but who knows? I just think it's stupid to be offended by a compliment like that in a gym. I think some people aren't ready to take any form of compliments because their own complexity issues. These kind of people shouldn't be taken seriously as a "general  norm" in any society and culture.
외국에 대해서 이미 색안경 끼고 어설프게 아는 사람들이 하는 얘기 참...  한국에 사회적 문제가 많은 건 맞는데 외모 얘기는 진짜 한국에 대해 불합리하게 평가하는 거에요  생각해보세요 서양애들은 외모 얘기 아예 안하고 사나요? 그렇다고 생각하면 당신이 영어를 못하거나 순진한 거에요 뒤에서 무진장 눈부터 발까지 다 얘기합니다   저 동유럽에 있을 때도 되게 친하고 착하다고 여긴 애들이 저는 아시아인인 걸 눈치 안보고 중국인들 웃기게 생겼다 쟤는 눈 보니까 몽골인 같던데 이런 말 하고 그랬어요.   러시아도 장난 아니었고요.  미국 영국 이런데는 신사일 거 같나요?  그러면 흑인 피부색 아시아인 눈매 케이팝은 게이다  이딴 얘기가 왜 나와요?  한국의 문제를 인정하는 건 중요한데 서양은 그런게 없을 거라고 착각하는 멍청한 이중잣대가 오히려 한국을 필요 이상으로 까내린다고 생각합니다
 @sspark2001 저게 별것도 아니노??? ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 저 별것도 아닌게 날선 칼이 될 수도있음
​ @tommypop2139 마인드가 몇 백 년 전 조선에 머물러 있는 거 같으니까 그걸 비꼰 거 아니야 그럼 21세기에 19세기 18세기처럼 생각하는 게 맞는 거임? 경제를 발전 시킬 게 아니라 인간들 생각부터 발전 시켰어야 됐는데 아니면 적어도 경제를 발전시킨 만큼 시민의식도 교육 시켰어야 됐는데 참 여러모로 실패한 국가다
증말 음습합니다. 인스타보고 이분이?? How?? ㅋㅋㅋ 참으로 천박한 인간입니다... 음습하니까 자기병원에서 멀쩡한 사람이 죽어나가도 눈하나 깜짝 안하죠.
This kind of culture in Korea needs to be grown up,
 @sspark2001  어떻게 별 거 아닌 문제임? 현대 한국사회에 기본으로 깔려져있는 문화가 얼평하는거고 외국 사람들이 한국을 성형의 나라로 아는데. 지능이 떨어짐? 한국에서 외모 칭찬하는 방식도 외국에서는 굉장히 큰 실례임.
 @dlee6976  님 외국가서 외국인한테 "와 너 얼굴 진짜 작다"  한번 해보샘. 뭔 말임. 얼평하는거 자체가 실례임. 님들이 뭔데 내 외모를 평가함?
 @dshyon  내 글 자꾸 지워지는데 외국도 사람 나름이라니깐 그러네.  외국 살면서 얘기하는데 기본적으로 예쁘다거나 잘생겼다하면 칭찬으로 들음. 아 뭐 컴플렉스 쩔어있다거나 머릿속에 인종차별 이상한 생각으로 꽉찬 인간들 아니면..뭐 칭찬했는데 화내는 인간중에 정상인은 없었음.
 @dshyon  아 그리고 얼굴 작다고 하는 건 외국에서는 칭찬도 아니고 욕도 아님. 걍 "이해하기" 어려운 말이고 상대가 동양인이 아니면 기분나쁘게 들을 수도 있음. 특히 머리 작고 컴플렉스 쩔은 흑인 같은 경우엔. 외모 칭찬하는 그 자체가 나쁜게 아니라 그쪽 코드에 맞춰서 칭찬을 해야지 어떤 일본의 병신들처럼 유태인에게 코가 크다고 욕같은 "칭찬" 을 하면 욕 한바가지 처먹지. 문화를 잘 이해해야 함..
 @dlee6976  외국에서는 애초에 사람 외모 가지고 “와 너 잘생겼다” “와 너 못생겼다”조차도 그 사람 앞에서 잘 안함. 한국 사람들은 다른 사람 아무렇지 않게 얼평하는게 그냥 일상임. 이 영상에도 배운 사람들이 저 외국 유튜버 바로 앞에서 “너 인스타 볼때는 이런 사람인 줄 몰랐다”하고 바로 말로 내뱉었음
 @dshyon  자꾸 외국 외국 하는데 외국 어디를 얘기하는지 모르겠네.. 사람 외모 가지고 잘생겼다 못생겼다란 말을 잘 안 한다는게 우선 첫쨰로 나라에 따라 다르고 둘쨰로 사람 나름이라니깐 도대체 외국 어딘지를 분명히 얘기도 안하고 같은말만 계속 반복하면 어쩌나? 세계가 한국 vs 전세계가 아니잖아? 외국이라면 중국 얘기하나? 중국에서 사람 외모 가지고 너 잘생겼다 못생겼다를 앞에서 언급 안한다고??  그리고 외국이라고 해서 님이 생각하는 것처럼 외모 평가 안하는 사람만 있는게 아님. 어느 관계로 만났는지에 따라 다르겠지만 튀니지아나 모로코에서 서로 얼평 및 옷평 하는 건 일상이었음. 유럽? 사람마다 다르고 국가마다 다름. 영국에선 내가 입은 옷 가지고 핸섬하게 잘 입었다느니 머리 스타일 맘에 든다던지 외모 칭찬 많이 들었는데 영국은 님이 얘기하는 외국 범주에 벗어나나?.  아프리카? 케냐에도 좀 있었는데 피부색깔 가지고 밤에 안 보인다해도 전혀 문제될 게 없었음. 이것도 외모평가라면 외모평가인데 미국과 서방쪽 흑인들에게 이런 식으로 얘기하면 기분나빠 하겠지만 케냐쪽에선 전혀 상관하지 않았음.   결과적으로 A는 나쁘고 B는 좋다는 것을 정형화 시킬 수 없다는 거임. 세계는 님이 생각하는 것보다 훨씬 넒고 사람들도 다양함. 그 와중에도 국룰이 몇가지 있는데 첫번쨰는 웃음, 그리고 두번쨰는 칭찬임. 그게 외모평가든 뭐든 문화가 다른 사람과의 오해를 그나마 "최대한' 덜 사는 방법임. 뭐 그런데도 지랄하는 사람이 있긴 하겠지만 그거까지 맞춰줄수는 없는 거고.
 @dlee6976  한국사람들 이상해. 사람 면전에 대고 외모평가하는게 실례라고 하는데 이걸 꼬투리 잡네. 외국 외국 따지는게 아니라 님이 외국에 한번도 안 살아본 티가 나요 그냥. 글로벌 인간관계를 책으로 배우셨음?
 @sspark2001  남들이 문제삼고 난리치는 행동 많이 하시나봐요?ㅋㅋ 그런 경우엔 본인을 좀 되돌아보길.. 절대 안 그러겠지만
 @dshyon - I agree with you. I live in the US. Sure, poking fun about appearances with close friends is acceptable. But to see two psych professionals on TV offer opinions about their guest’s looks, body shape or overall appearance when he is there to promote his book? This would be regarded as highly unprofessional and impolite. As the hosts of a foreign guest, it would have been considerate if they’ve done a quick research prior about the social etiquette/norms of his culture. As psychologists, this would have been so easy to do. So while there seem to be several arguments on this thread that what had occurred was no big deal or that all the cultures do it to some extent, I agree with you that it was not proper in the context the scenario has played out.
​ @ztvvtsh65 인도네시아 일본 중국 등등 한국이 아닌 나라에서도 이런 말은 합니다 한국만 그런 거 아님
얼마나 자존감이 떨어지면 저정도 아이스 브레이킹으로 음습하다고 하냐..ㅋㅋㅋ 일단 미국정서나 문화는 아예 모르고 가본적은 커녕 미국 친구 한명도 없죠 님? ㅋㅋ
My heart goes out to yall. Generational PTSD is a REAL thing. Wanting to be the best and wanting to be effective for a lot of Koreans is rooted In fear . Being so terrified of being vulnerable or becoming victim to another group again.  I'm American and my ancestors were oppressed for hundreds of years here. Being oppressed for so long and being punished everything we tried to create our own or fight back created a hopeless mentality. It created low self esteem. It has been proven that we inherit our ancestors  traumas and its so obvious nwhen you see how people operate today. I really respect  that you have noticed the issue and that you want to heal it. I'm trying to heal mines as well.
As an American, I’ve lived and worked in a Korean community in NYC throughout the 1990’s and 2000’s, so this mindset is very familiar to me. At times, my colleagues were highly critical of me for lacking motivation. Some of it was out of concern that I would be a failure. When I mentioned to a woman that I had a counseling appointment so I had to leave by 5:00, she was shocked. Why would I see a counselor? “You’re not crazy!” In her mind, psychologists and psychiatrists were only for “crazy” people. She just didn’t understand or accept that I was wrestling with anxiety and depression  brought on by a family problem. To her, it was something shameful.
​ @밝은하루-v5i  전 캐나다사는데 여기는 외모 특히 얼굴로 남을 평가하는건 되게 무례한 경우임
 @밝은하루-v5i 갑분 이걸 한국인이 하냐 외국인이 하냐로 몰아가는 로직이 더 웃긴데ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ 하지 말아야 할 칭찬도 있답니다 그 외모 칭찬이 이 영상에서 말하는 한국을 우울케 하는 점 중 하나라고 몇몇 댓글에서 얘기하는건데 참 ㅋㅋㅋ 3개월 여행왔다 가셨으니 개인영역 침범이 뭔지 이해는 안되겠지
 @밝은하루-v5i  저걸 보고 저런것이 굉장히 한국스럽다는걸 못 느꼈다면  당신은 외국인과의 문화적 교류나 정서같은 대화?를 해본 경험이 아주 없는편에 속할거고 잘 모르는 입장이니 입을 좀 다무는게 좋으실듯.
 @밝은하루-v5i  답답.. 적어도 여기 세 명은 님이 처음에 낸 의견이 잘못됐다 하는데 안 듣는건 님인데 남을 지적하네 ㅋㅋㅋ 지 말만 하는건 본인인걸 모르는 것부터가 어이가 없는데 내 외모는 서구권에서 내 개인 영역이라서 그걸 어떻다 저떻다 말하는게 침해하는거라구 그것만 인정을 해도 대화가 이렇게는 안 될텐데 ㅉㅉ
 @밝은하루-v5i  상황상 결이 다르다고 모두가 이해한 걸 저한테 왜 그렇게 말했냐 물으시면 제가 뭐라고 대답해야 할까요. 이전 댓글은 지울게요.
저도요…이런 사람들에게 자문을 구하다니요…웃기지도 않는 외모평가를 농담이랍시고 하고 앉아있는 꼴이라니…진짜 부끄럽다🫣
평소의 생활습관이 자연스레 표출되는 것일뿐. 주변사람들 지인들도 다 비슷한 부류들만 모여서 히히덕덕 거리며 수다나 떨고 ~ 뭐 그렇게 남의 외모평가, 사치품 쇼핑, 연애질 그런것에만 관심 가지고 웃고 떠드는 분위기속에서 성장했을테고 뭐 그렇게 살아왔으니까 아주 자연스럽게 저런 외모평가질이 나옴 ㅋ  뭐가 문제이고 잘못된것인지도 인식도 못할듯!
동감입니다. 저도 해외생활 오래 하다가 최근에 계속 생각하게 되는점이 바운더리에 관한 거였는데 첫만남에도 서스럼없이 부모님이 뭐하시냐, 학교는 어디 나왔냐 어디 사냐 등 굉장히 디테일하게 질문을 하시는걸 느끼면서 많이 불편했어요. 그것도 질문주신분들이 다 소위 배우신 분들이라는 교수, 의사 등 분들이였거든요. 그래서 외모평가를 포함해서 이러한 부분들은 사회에 스며든 문화라는 느낌을 받았어요. 사실 칭찬은 좋은거일지라도 그게 ‘judging’으로 생각되면 저는 좀 불편하더라구요. 저는 외모평가도 일종의 ‘judging’행위라고 생각돼서 아마 불편했던것 같습니다.
저는 제가 해외생활도 했고 제가 따로 독서치료도 했고, 그래서 한국의 특이한 병리성을 알고서 한국의 몇 심리채널도 보지만, 말씀하신 분들은 공감이 하나도 안되더라구요. 나르시시스트 관련해서 집중적으로 이야기해주는 몇 채널은 정말로 유익한데, 애초에 한국의 심리학자들 자체가 부모에게 묶여있는 경우도 많아요.
어떠한 시대의 흐름이나 새로운세대들의 변화 또는 한국가의 사회상, 역사등을 논할때는 진정한 이세계의 모습이 왜 어떻게 이루어져 흘러왔고 흘러가고있는지를 기본적으로라도 알고 ㅇ야기 해야된다고 봅니다  아니면 너무나도 중요한 이슈들을 한낯 흥미위주로 가뜩이나 힘든이들에게 짐이될수있겠습니다 미국 유럽 일본 중국 어디한곳 제대로 돌아갑니까?
 @personalaccount11   다양성이라든지 더불어 산다 그런것에 대한 어떠한 의식이나 교육이 안되어 있고, 과거의 1차 농경사회의 어떠한 전통문화 가치관이 아직도 사회를 지배하고 있고 사회를 하나의 어떠한 대가족으로 인식하고 있다는게 더 문제점! 그러다보니 타인의 바운더리를 넘는 짓을 아주 당연하게 오히려 '정'으로 인식해서 더 한다는 거 ㅋ
한국이 농담으로 면전에 외모평가 해대는 것은 진짜 심각한 문제임. 방송 특히 연예프로에서 가장 손쉬운 유모코드로 외모비하가 쓰이고 그런 인신공격을 농담으로 상대방이 받아들이기를 강요함. 정말 무례를 '솔직함'이라고 착각해서 그게 너무 일상화 되어 있음. 유느님이라고 불리는 한국 최고 MC도 그런 외모비하 농담을 그의 핵심적인 유모코드로 쓰고 있음. 또한 사회적으로 타인의 대한 외모비하와 동시에 자신의 외모비하 마저도 당연시하게 되었는데 그것 또한 '자기객관화'라고 합리화 시키고 있음. 싸이가 미국 토크쇼까지 나와서 자기외모비하 농담을 하는데 방청객들도 동시에 'NO~라면서 왜 그러냐'는 반응을 보임. 안에서 새는 바가지 밖에서도 샌다고 한국의 병적인 외모비하를 글로벌하게 펼쳐 보이고 있었음. 결국 이런 병리적 현상도 한국인의 엄청난 '오지랖 문화'의 일부분이고 이런 것에 대한 문제점을 사회적으로 심도있게 다뤄 그 심각성을 자각했으면 함.
 @srquqt3sur ㄹㅇ. 애들이 보는 런닝맨 같은 프로들에서조차 외모순위 메기기 같은게 개그 소재로 당연하게 쓰임. 찰나에는 웃기지만 그런 상황 자체가 정신건강에 좋을리는 없는건데
애초에 양브로 양아치같았음 그 부모가 뭐 내가 태어나고 싶어태어난거 아니니 효도하지말라였나 그거보고 너무시류영합적 듣고 싶은말만하는 양아치스럽다 생각했는데 역시나 저급한 질문
한국 사람들은 외모를 celebrity와 비교하면서 칭찬하는 걸 good ice-breaking이라고 생각하는 경향이 아주 강합니다.
미국에서도 저렇게 얼굴이 어떻다 몸매가 어떻다 하는 거 무례해요.  잘 생겼다고 하는 것도 평가에요. Who do you think you are to evaluate my appearance?! 바운더리에 대한 존중이 없는 것 서로 계속 평가하는 것 외모 지상주의...이런 분위기도 우울증과 자살에 일조했다고 생각해요
 @goldfish-vw2wj 그런 운동이 또하나의 극단으로 치닫는 결과가 되는 것임. 한국에서 그런거하면 항상 극단적으로 가서 하면안됌
NOBODY TOLD KOREA TO FOLLOW AMERICA AND OTHER COUNTRIES. CAUSE AND EFFECT
Is it just me or does it seem like the architecture itself is also extremely depressing, gray, dull, dingy looking buildings with everything looking the same no one smiling on the streets, depressed, looking elderly people walking past with garbage piles on every corner the sun rarely shines as well. I noticed that. I’m a very optimistic person, but I have to turn it up to level nine to stay even in a place like South Korea.
 @goldfish-vw2wj  그럴 필요 없고... 문제의 본질은 TV 방송매체라는거다!!! 방송이 그런걸 시작한거야.
제 아무리 "유명한" 심리학자들인 지 몰라도 난 별로다. 특히, 그 중 형 거들먹거리고 앉아있는 폼 봐라.
그 두 형제분 나르시시스트 부모 밑에서 자란 사람들이라 한계가 있는 듯. 두분다 문제도 꽤 있더군요. 강박, codependency 등.
저도 캐나다에 살지만 누구를 닮았다 사진에 비해 잘생겼다 뭐 피부가 하얗다 등 외모에 관한 발언은 굉장히 무례한 표현입니다.   근데 저는 한국에서도 살아봤기때문에 저 의사분 말은 아이스브레이킹을 위한 발언이라고 여겨집니다. 그냥 두 문화의 차이입니다. 누가 잘하고 못하고의 문제가 아닙니다.   이 문제는 굉장히 간단합니다. 서로 문화를 잘 안다면 아무 문제 없습니다. 상대방의 의도를 알기때문이죠. 근데 문화를 잘 알면서도 누가 잘못했다 외모발언은 무조건 나쁜거다라고 하는건 아닌거 같습니다.   그냥 미국도 우리나라도 그냥 다른 문화를 수용하고 이상하게 안여기면 됩니다. 그게 다양성을 존중하는 겁니다.    저도 한번씩 한국 가면 누구 닮았다 이런 소리 듣는데 여기서 최근에 오래 산지라 문화가 많이 스며 들었고 기분이 썩 좋진 않지만 또 그렇다고 기분이 썩 나쁘지도 않습니다. 다양성을 존중하기 때문이죠.   우리나라는 다양성의 이해도가 매우 부족한 나라입니다. 그것만 좀 더 넓은 시각으로 바라봤으면 합니다.   미국도 깔꺼 천지입니다. 나라마다 문화마다 장단점이 있어요. 한국은 우울한 나라, 경쟁이 심한 나라로 그냥 치부하기엔 강점도 굉장히 많다는 걸 알았으면 합니다.
이 영상은 댓글로 완성되는듯함.. 외모발언은 무조건 나쁜거다라고 하는 한국인 의견이 99퍼센트임. 범죄가 아닌이상은 각 나라마다 그냥 다르다라는 문화를 수용하고 이해하면 문제가안됨. 정도의 차이가 있을뿐 다양성 존중의 방식에 따른 차이다 무조건적인 나쁜점만 존재하는지, 절대악인지는 고찰은 해봐야지 무조건적인 단점이다라고 마침표찍어버리는, 다들 의견이 하나인건 참으로 한국스럽다  각 나라마다 문화마다 장단점이 있지만 한국은 그 다양성의 이해가 매우 부족한 나라라서 다른나라는 안그렇대라며 누군가의 좁은경험을 얘기하니 전부 자기의 좁은경험을 토로하며 일반화를하며 의견도 딱 하나인게 참 안타깝다. 물론 저 의사들이 한 말이 긍정적이게 비추어지진않지만 기본적으로 좋든싫든 외모에 대한 얘기는 인간의 본능과 밀접하게 연결되있을수밖에 없는, 인간은 국적불문하고 보이는 것에 굉장히 밀접하게 영향을 받는동물이다. 하물며 한낱 동물도 마찬가지로 크고 멋있는 동물이 더 짝짓기횟수가 많다. 안타깝게도 우리 인간은 그런 동물이다 다들 정말애써서 안그런척, 굳이표낼 이유도없을뿐이지 여기서 파생된 외모 집착문화가 결과적으론 kpop, kbeauty를 만들었고 개인적경험에 비추어 정말 나쁘다고 불쾌하다고 생각할수도 있다. 충분히 이해할수 있는 영역에 존재한다.  심지어 본인도 이에 관해서 좋지않은 경험을 한적이 많다. 하지만 그럼에도 무조건적인 악습이고 폐해인것인가에 대한건 물음표이다. 오히려 외모언급보단 나이나 급여, 신상정보를 쉽게 묻는행위가 한국에서 한시라도 바뀌어야할 시급한 주제라고 생각한다. 다만 그중에서도 내가 한국에 살며 정말 이해할수없는건 조금의 고찰없이 다수의 의견을 따라 무조건적인 일방적 a or b 흑백진영식 태도와 조금만 의견이다르면 다들 몰려쫓아가 멍석말이해서 묵살해버리는 개인의견이나 생각없이 큰 물결에만 휩쓸리는 한국의 제일 큰 단점을 보는게 항상 안타까운점이다.
just based on that short clip, the Yang Bros seem douchey...
 @밝은하루-v5i You are allowed to say what you think making others uncomfortable. 🕊 Often the masses are not right either. 😊
 @gbot9000  Korea this video showed was extremely little. Sun shines a lot, garbage piles are not on every corner, depressing dingy looking building are not everywhere in Korea, especially in Seoul. There are older parts of Seoul and newer parts of Seoul. The video addressed the issue very well, but I think it didn't show much of the country as it wasn't necessarily a travel video. If you go there as a visitor, you will rarely feel the issue. Rather, you'll probably have a lot fun, I hope at least. I suggest you to look other travel channels' videos to see the country. Hope that changes your impression. I am Korean living abroad, but my American husband and in-law families who never left the U.S before loved Seoul when they visited.
 @holidaysummer9256  저도 강연 갔늨데… 지는 부모한테 돈을 받은게 많아서 효도할거라는 데요? ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 아닌 부모들른 아예 바라지 말래요 ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 😂😂😂 누가 애를 조선시대도 아니거 봉양 받을려고 낳나요?? 조건이 어떻든 사랑으로 아에를 기르는 분들도 많은데 ㅋㅋ 이런 천박한 것들때문에 출산률이 더 낮아지고 부모들 우울해 지는거 아닐까요? 제발 나오지 말았으면.
 @suedominic9108  그거 보고 아주 저급하고 거안하고 상스럽더라구요 사람들사이에 갈등이나 만들고 인기나 끌려고 역시나 예상안빗나간 느낌 암튼 효도하고 정상적으로 살자구요
 @gbot9000  It's just you. When you go through Seoul everything is full of life. It actually feels exciting to be there.....as a foreigner
마크 맨슨님과 관계에서 평가자 입장으로 우위를 점하고 싶었던 걸까요 너무 부끄럽네요
저도 캐나다 오래 살았지만 직접적인 말로 평가는 안해도 보는 눈빛이 달라지는건 뭐 어쩔수 없는거죠 ㅎㅎ 어딜가나 남녀가 그렇듯이..  @돌직구-b9b 
전 호주 사는데 남의 외모나 대해서 아무도 얘기하지 않아요. 근데 한국에서는 이게 당연한거죠. 외모에대한 스트레스를 항상 가지고 사는거 같아요 거의 모든 사람들이
​ @돌직구-b9b OH DEFINITELY AGREED 1000%!!!!!!!!!!  But unfortunately it still goes on.
That author isn’t even good looking but because he’s a white Westerner they complimented him. I was like, wow, they really admire his looks?😂
그게 유교적 문화가 극대화된 한국인 종특인거죠. 마크맨슨이 동영상에서 대놓고 말하진 않았지만 뉘앙스나 긴 시간을 할애해 저부분을 모두 담아낸건 분명히 문제가 있다고 지적하는 행동인것 같네요
저런 인간들도 정신과 의사라고 나와서 유투브랑 공중파에서 떠드는게 정신병자 공화국 헬조선 현실임.
스며드는것도 있지만 그냥 무례한겁니다.  결코 좋은 사람이 아닌거고요. 뭐가 무례한지 알고 진심으로 남을 배려 할 줄 아는 사람들은 저런 짓 안합니다.  심리학자라고 다 똑똑하고 좋은 사람이 아닙니다.  원래부터 별로 호감 아니었는데 이 영상에서 진짜 부끄럽네요
외모평을 아무렇지도 않게 늘어놓는 게 타인한테 무례한 행동이라는 생각을 못하는 게 한국인의 문제점이죠. 따지고 보면 얼굴이나 외모는 공적인 영역이 아니라 개인의 가장 프라이빗한 영역에 해당하는 건데요. 세상에 생김새가 똑같은 사람은없잖아요. 그저 모든 개인이 서로 다를 뿐인데 몇몇의 일률적인 잣대로 평가하는 것 자체가 엄격히 말하면 인권침해인거죠. 좋은 평가든 나쁜 평가든. 미국에 유학간 딸 친구 말에 따르면 미국에선 타인의 생김새, 예컨대 뚱뚱하다거나 날씬하다는 등의 외모평가를 큰 실례로 받아들인다 하더군요. 워낙 다인종국가니 외모적 다양성을 인정하는 게 문화로 다리잡았기 때문이겠죠. 그런데도 미국만큼 인종차별이 심한 나라가 없다는 건  아이러니한 문제라고 해야할 듯하네요.
양브로는 문제가 없음  한국이란 사회에 절여진 결과지 한국의 문화가 저급한거임 가장 착한 사람이 살인하는 나라면 나라가 문제일까  살인한 착한사람이 문제일까
단일민족이라 그래요 저도 한국에 있을때는 외모에 대한 코멘트를 그게 욕이든 칭찬이든 알게 모르게 들었던것 같아요 . 너는 코만 좀 하면 더 이쁠것 같아. 키가 커서 이런 옷 잘 어울릴것 같아. 교묘한 칭찬 같이 들리지만 외모 판단/지적이죠.  미국에 사니 이런 식의 말은 아예 꺼내지 않더라구요  다들 너무나 다르게 생겼기 때문에 의미가 없어요
외모도 경쟁력이다는 말이 나오는 지독한 한국에서의 폐해와....타인에 대한 관심을 표현하는 한국정서적인 방식에서의  타인에대한 사적인 부분을 넘나드는 질문들......문화적인 측면으로 그걸 문제없다고 느낀다면 괜찮은 거고....미국에서는 그런 표현의 관심이 대단한실례라고 여기기 때문에 한국적 관심 표현이 잘못된거라는 생각도 잘못이라 생각됌.   외모조차도 가꾸지 않으면 살아남을수 없는 지나친 경쟁의식이 만연한 한국사회의 경쟁의식이 진짜 문제인것이지.... 타인의 관심을  개인의 사적인구역과 외모의
두사람에 대해 아는 바가 없던 입장에서 정신과의사라는 정보가 신기할만큼 언바란스더군요. 평소 tv를 전혀 안보고 살아서인지 원래 우리나라 민족의 전통적 관점에서도 불편하고 쓸데없는 질문으로 시작한 양씨형제였습니다.  제 지인들은 다들 토종 한국인이지만 저렇게 하지 않습니다.
외국에서는 외모로 잘못 말꺼냈다가는 오피스로 불려가고 잘못하면 해고당할 수도 있어요 그리고 인종, 외모(특히 살), 게이 등의 차별적인 이야기하면 본인도모르게 상대방에게 손절당합니다ㅎ
사람들이 뭔가 하나만 알고 둘은 모르는데   서양도 외모에 대한 평가를 안 하지 않아요. 당신들이 영어를 못해서 못 알아 듣거나 애들이 뒷담으로 얘기하는 데 순진해서 모르는 거에요  아이러니하지만 제가 동유럽에 있을 때 애들과 무지 친했는데 애들이 저도 아시아인이라는 건 의식하지 않고 중국인들 눈매 얼평 엄청 하며 웃고 그랬어요  당신들은 이런 거에 대해서 생각은 하나요??  그리고 서양은 외모에 대해 뭐 완벽히 자유롭고 논리 이성으로만 대화하는 줄 아나요  그냥 당신들이 보고 싶은 거만 보는 거에요  애초에 서양이 그렇게 합리적인 국가였으면  온갖 인종차별(흑인 아시아인 외모 비하 등) 과 식민지 역사(침탈 뿐 아니라 토착민에 대한 외모 평가 등)는 왜있었나요?   미국 방송에서 케이팝 아이돌들에 대한 외모 평가도 무진장 대놓고 앞에서 해대는데 미국문화는 선, 한국문화는 저급한 악? 이런 공식이 나오나요  한국에 대해 비판해야될 건 많지만 외모 관련된 문화는 전 아무리 봐도 부당하다고 봐요. 지금 21세기에 외모에 대해 자유로운 나라가 선진국에서 어디있나요? 정말 잘 생각해보세요.
​ @ejfeg779  동유럽 인종차별 심하기로 유명한데.. 본인은 친하다고 생각하나 그 사람들은 대놓고 인종차별하면서 본인이 동조하나 안하다 떠본게 아닐까요? 어떻게 생각하세요?  그리고 여기서 사람들이 얘기하는 건 서양은 무조건 선이라기보다 최소한 서양에서 이상적이다. 표준이다 라고 생각하는  기준을 말하는것 같은데요. 우리나라에선 그런 것조차 없잖아요. 초면에 외모, 나이, 직업, 학벌 이런 부분에 대해 직접적으로 언급하면 안돼. 라는 적어도 가이드 라인이라도 있으면 좋을텐데 없단말이죠
저런 사람들 그냥 유튜브하면서 연예인된 기분 느끼고 돈벌려고 저러고 있는거지. 솔직히 뭐 애국자, 인격자라서 한국을 더 나은, 더 좋은 사회로 만들려고 저러는거 전혀 아니라는거 다 아시잖아요? ㅋㅋ 한국에 애국자는 없어요. 애국심 가질만한 나라가 아니고 애국자라고 착각하는 사람들 다 그저 나라로부터 애국을 주입당했을 뿐입니다. 진짜 애국자면 한국의 현실에 통탄하고 매우 강하게 비난해야돼요.
 @bold_english_  그러면 한국으로 돌아오세요. 헛소리하지마시구요 열받게 그쪽은 외국 살면서 그런 말 하면 기만밖에 더 됩니까?
 @Vicky-ji1iw  See? Koreans living in Korea and foreigners watching them talk about Korea's problems. And Koreans who leave Korea and live abroad like you, say this. Will you take responsibility for Korea? It's irresponsible behavior that I don't understand. You left Korea.
진짜 이게 바로 한국이다. 정신과의사 두분이 확실하게 보여주는 대목이였음. 나는 엄마랑 다니면 사람들이 엄마랑 나를 두고 외모지적질에 지친1인..
100점이 어딨나요? 논리적으로 없는말인데. 강도가 100점이라는 말도 존재하지 않습니다. 성공은 나눌려고하는거지 나쁜게아닙니다. 희생을 강요하고 확일화된 가치관에 벗어나면 수치심울 주는
굳이 그걸 충격적이라고 받아들일 것까진 없겠죠. 그분들도 어쩔 수 없이 한국에 사시는 한국분들이라 자신도 모르게 물든 부분이긴 할텐데 그래도 역시 말씀하신 것처럼 그런 외모평가 문화는 확실히 없어져야 합니다.
​ @sushispicelatte Your thoughts are 100% accurate  because they killed some Korean woman recently by something like medical accident
​ @GGolfemiKimchiboGDetector 착한 사람은 살인을 안 함 정당방위나 복수 같은 류의 살인이 아니라면ㅇㅇ 양브로는 양아치고 살인자니까 나쁜 인간들임 나라도 문제고 저것들도 문제임 악습도 문제고 그 악습이 문제인지도 모르고 창피한지도 모르고 그대로 온고잉 하는 한국인들도 문제임
​ @holidaysummer9256  양브로 이들 TV프로 여기저기  출연하느라 독서가 부족한 사람으로 보인다 얄팍한... 정신과의사라는 타이틀이 이사람을 고급지게? 만들어 주는 것같다 한국사회진단을 하려면 제대로된 깊이있는 해석을  하실분들을 선택해서인터뷰해야지,,왜 하필 ,양아치들ㅋㅋㅋ
상대의 외모에 대한 표현은 그것이 좋은 의도라고 해도 삼가는 것이 맞다고 생각합니다. 칭찬이라고 해도 그것은 어디까지나 본인의 생각이지 않을까요? 저도 미국과 캐나다에서 어린 시절 오래 살다 왔음에도 이후에 한국에서 계속 지내다 보니.. 가까운 친구에게 외모 관련 실수를 몇 번 한 적이 있습니다. 아직 제대로 된 사과를 하지 못했네요. 다음에 만나면 그때는 진심으로 미안했다고 전하면서 같은 실수를 반복하지 않겠다고 다짐합니다.
 @grasp38  그 외국인친구 개 어이없어했을듯ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ 얼굴이 작다하질 않나ㅋㅋㅋ 후진민국사람으로써  스스로가 보끄랍습니다 ㄹㅇ 한련이 미안함ㅠ
나도 그거 보고 깜짝놀랐음. 한국 사람들 항상 외국인 데려다 놓고 얼굴 작다 하얗다 연예인 닮았다 어려보인다라고 말하는게 칭찬이라고 생각함 정신과 의사 둘이서 전형적인 한국인의 모습을 보여줬네 ㅋㅋ
양브로 옛날 세대라 그래요. ㅋㅋ 이해하세요. 전 오래전 양브로 구독 취소^^😅
I'm a Korean in my late 30's. I felt the same feelings with you. I got a professional job and have no special social problem, but I've lived with guilt and anxiety for whole my life.
 @초쿄볼  Anxiety is too common, and a problem in the west too.  What is the source of the guilt though, do you know?
I've had anxiety issues in my 20's, but I've learned along the way that those feelings aren't equal to who I am as a person. It's the result of a combination of being perceptive of negative feelings but mostly due to what we went through in our lives from a young age on. After university I realised something was wrong. I started working abroad to get to know myself outside of what I know. It opened my eyes to certain things and I learned how to control my anxiety. You can also surmount your guilt and anxiety, don't give up on yourself
i suggest to take a breath from other countries, cheaper ones but happier country. you would open your mind when you travel. come to my country, im a malaysian
Anxiety is a real problem in the world. I really wish one day we can all live happy without worries. Thank you for sharing your experience!
I wish you guys the best. No one deserves to live with anxiety like this, especially when they have already done their best.
Im brazillian and that part brought tears to my eyes. I feel like every country has something touching and beautiful about their history and their people.
I struggle with anxiety and perfectionism too, i believe is a global problem at this point 🥺 Of couse some cultures make it more extreme but is an aspect of capitalism
I have seen same scenario in Singapore too... People there always looks depressed..😢
Materialism is poison,and the problem is that everything getting more expensive and jobs are becoming more competitive and studying hours also jumped so high it's very sad, not only South Korea has this problem many countries do too
I heard that Korea's most important day is the college entrance tests day, it blew my mind. Airports would shut down and everybody gets into a very serious tone. That's how competitive Korea's education is.
This man is an absolute treasure in content creation. Mark's channel definitely has one of the most underrated content on the internet. The combination of humour and education (psychology, history) with sheer openness was translated into a beautiful emotional roller coaster ride throughout this video.
23:40 This will be my life attitude from now on. I'm Korean, both the video and her words helped me a lot. Thanks.
I'm a Korean-American, born and raised in Korea until high school and immigrated to America in 1981.  This video is spot-on.  When I was living in Korea, I was under so much pressure to excel in school, mercilessly driven to study so very hard to go to a good university - by the time I was in high school, I felt so old, exhausted, and wanted to retire from life.  It was all about studying all the time to get the best grades with no time to play or have fun.  We even pressured to waste as little time as possible on sleeping at night.  I was so stressed, depressed and worn out.  It was brutal.  We never blamed society or others with sense of entitlement that most Americans have, and we just took all responsibility on our individual selves to work hard, improve ourselves and excel.  Some of my Korean friends as adults had to work so hard, couldn't go home at night, had to continue working all night and sleep at their desks, some of them died of failed health - literally working to death.  There is a price in coming so far from the poor and war-torn country to the one now excelling in every field.
It was an honor showing you and Will around Korea. You guys did a phenomenal job showing the best and worst of Korea. Resilience IS the best word to describe Korea and even when things feel hopeless in Korea (especially these days in politics as well) I know Koreans are resilient and will rise to the occasion. We are resilient and super adaptable. I am so proud of my Korean heritage and really appreciate you and your team shining light on Korea. I hope a lot of Koreans watch this :)   🎉🎉more Mark documentary style travel videos like this please!!!
As a 54yr old Korean-American whose lived in the US since 2yrs old and in Korea for the past 20 years, I think I have enough first-hand personal 'lived experience' to have a deep understanding of the problems Korea faces and the differences between issues in Korea and western societies namely the US.  First I'd like to congratulate and applaud you for putting together a very well-researched and accurate video on the topic and which delves deeply enough to point out and present the root causes. There are way too many Gen Z 'tiktalkers' and 'influencers' that try to present such "Why so-and-so..' videos without having a clue as to what they are talking about. Most of them are pretty much just surface level observations they have experienced one or two times or a 'compilation' of talking points they have put together from other peep's videos online, which never fails to get to the root causes.   Regarding this topic at hand, more often than not it usually comes down to something like this, 'Koreans are too materialistic and fake, not to mention so competitive and narcissistic they have unrealistic beauty standards which drives them to be the cosmetic surgery capital of the world. No wonder they get so depressed if they don't think they're number one.. etc. etc.'  It's true, on the surface there's outward materialism, and competitiveness, and all those things mentioned. However, instead of simply writing it off as negative and undesirable traits as viewed in the west, if one takes the time to try and find out the root causes/reasons for such, they would come to understand why Koreans are such-and-such. Also, in many cases they would see that in many, if not most cases, the 'cause and effect' of such personality/character traits are quite different as compared to the west. Much has to do with Confucianist values of group harmony and unity, respect for elders/others, close family, patriarchal norm, etc. along with the fact Korea went from an agrarian society to the 9-10th largest industrialized economy in the world in a few short decades, which was pointed out in your expose, you get a better understanding of the nuances of why these character traits evolved in the society.   The competitive nature in Korea was not only brought on by parents wanting their children to succeed and outdo the Lee's kids, but even the government was pushing for academic advancement and excellence because without that, how else would Korea became a developed country with advance knowledge in industry, technology, academics, research etc. As a result the overseas travel restrictions were lifted after the 88 Seoul Olympics to encourage study abroad and that's when you saw a sudden influx of Koreans going abroad to the US, UK, CN etc. to study in higher education not only for BA but also masters and doctoral programs. They were the ones literally bringing back textbook theoretical knowledge and putting it into real world applications when they returned and became employed, they had no mentor or higher-uppers to train them like you normally would at your job. I noticed one commenter from the UK who said some Korean exchange students were horrified for not receiving a grade of 100. When Koreans exchange students go abroad to study, they're not going there to just get a grade and graduate, they're going there to actually learn in depth as much as they can as they must apply it when they return and find employment. In doing so, they're not only advancing their personal position, they're contributing to the advancement of their company which in turn contributes to the advancement of Korea overall.   People don't realize or know, understandably since Korean history is not taught in the US (Hell, even a lot of American history isn't taught in schools in the US), but not only was Korea invaded and colonialized by Japan from late 1800's until 1945 with their defeat in WW2, but Korea has been invaded countless times throughout centuries by the Manchurians, Mongols, France, and more recently by China and Russia thru their proxy the North, which led to the Korean War in 1950, just 5 years after the Japanese Imperial Army withdrew. Thus, Korea is a very nationalistic and homogenous country, which also makes them very proud of their 'survival skills' having remained a sovereign nation through all that. How many times has the US been attacked / invaded / occupied, or the UK or AUS?  It's hard to imagine what it feels like if you've not personally experienced it. Since foreigners don't know Korean history they've historically, and incorrectly, labeled Korea as a racist/xenophobic country. Well if your country has been invaded countless times throughout history wouldn't you have an aversion to outsiders as well? It only makes sense. Also, look at what's happening today in European countries like the UK, DN, FR, SW etc. after they opened up their immigration policies. It's not that Korean's are inherently racist or xenophobic, they understand that an influx or foreigners and their culture would disrupt social order and harmony in the host country, which it seems the West is just now finding out.  Boomers onwards in developed countries have never experienced firsthand invasion, war, foreign occupation, industrialization, hyper-development and technological advancement. Korea has experienced all of these within one generation's time period, 1G. My father's generation, born in 1933, has seen, lived through and experienced all of these. Most post-war westerners couldn't even fathom what it would be like to live through an era with such turmoil and change, fortunately for the better, and the immense pressures, hardships, stress and other burdens it puts on a societal and individual level, through all areas of society, also coupled with the values of Confucianism you have a recipe for disaster if not managed well (which you pointed out).  I just wanted to add a little more, my two cents worth, in terms of context because to truly understand a country, you really need to have a deeper understanding of it's historical, cultural, religious etc. aspects as they are all inter-influential in shaping a society. Many young people do not understand this as they lack 'life experience', but yet think they know it all. Take 'materialism' for example, unlike in the west which is all about 'pimping' and vanity, in Korea it stems from a different reason culturally. Sure it's starting to mirror the West from a couple decades ago with the advent of the internet, but the 'effect' of materialism stems from a desire to project the image of success, which not only has a selfish component but also reflects well on your family, it shows that your parents succeeded at parenting and raised you well, it makes them proud (once again pride is very important in Korea), and as a good son or daughter, there's nothing greater you can do for your parents than to be successful and make them proud, which is like showing your gratitude for all the sacrifice they made in raising you, sending you to the best school/after-school academy they could afford. These are concepts which are foreign in the West due to their sense of individualism and independence.   Once again I commend you for your effort in trying to put together as honest and accurate a picture of the topic at hand. You did an excellent job considering the conciseness of your video, the best by a foreigner that I've seen.
Very nice and accurate insight. But most Korean people even do not recognize how depressed they are. I am Korean but have been lived in other countries for more than 10 years. Never coming back.
놀랍도록 정확한 분석일 뿐만 아니라 그속에서도 살아남으려고 노력중인 한국인들에 대한 따뜻한 마음까지 담긴 매력적인 영상이다.
Very understanding and heartwarming video. You did not describe nor define Korea’s problems through judgmental perspective but rather critically viewed and sincerely hoped for our better future. Thanks for a great video.
10:17 LOL As Korean I think this conversation really explains the lookism in Korean society. People think it's a natural thing to talk about other's appearance and make compliment like that. This is wrong.
I'm Korean but I've been living abroad most of my life. I had no idea that I am culturally not Korean at all until I started dating in Korea. People nonchalantly mention suicidal thoughts, and wanting to run away and quit everything. How casually they deal with severe mental health issues and substance abuse, and even the news of an acquaintance killing themselves, is shocking. or how much they care about optics (as opposed to how much they don't care about what they feel inside).Their societal, cultural issues have been boggling my mind so much so that I've been getting therapy after witnessing this in person. This is such an important topic that needs to be addressed. Thank you for making this into a video.
As a Korean, the pros and cons of my country are evident.  It's a heaven for a consumer, which means manifold and convenient services are surprising and satisfying enough to sustain your life here.  But the reason why it is regarded a hell is that YOU NEED TO CONTRIBUTE to this system as a worker/service provider/students as well.   Addition to my comment : Some Koreans also talk about "lookism" but I think it's quite hypocritical because these days in the modern world, other countries are not free from evaluation toward appearances. In this sense, we, Koreans denigrate ourselves in an imprecise way because of the stress they got somewhere.   The conclusion should not be like Oh you must leave Korea or No you must live in Korea.  We need to be objective to understand the true pros and cons.
Smart move to talk about your sponsor while you eat the spicy rice cakes. This way noone would skip this part. Very fucking smart 👏🏻👏🏻
This is what YouTube was made for. You've done a great job outlining all the factors leading up to the problem. From storytelling to visuals and use of motion graphics, this was a great video overall.
hey i'm the psychologist in the video. 영상에 나온 심리학자입니다! ㅎㅎ 한국의 사회적 문제에 대해 더 구체적으로 설명하고 싶었지만.. 영어가 부족해서 저렇게 이야기 할 수밖에 없었답니다😂😂 나머지 이야기들은 영어 설명을 잘하는 분들께 부탁드리겠습니다🙇‍♀️
Mark, Ive been a fan/follower for years. This is the best peice of content youve put out in a while. The empathy, the objectivity, the optimism. There is a zest for life that is infectious.  More please.
i enjoy every second of this. informativ, emotional, relatable, interesting and foremost technically well made. thank you!
I had left Korea when I was 27, and I have lived in Australia since then. There are many reasons why I left Korea however one of the biggest reasons is backstabbing culture and toxic work culture. Wherever you are at work and school, people are very nice in front of you but they stab your back behind you. what I mean is they gossip about you and pull you down.Especially when they believe you have more than them or you are smarter then them. It made me really sick. Of course anywhere around the world there is bullying, toxic culture exists. However, I never ever regret the fact that I left Korea.
 @victorchen9170 noooo, only Korea. My country did not shut down airport just for big exam in my country 😂
I love in a country where they literally block the internet on college entrance tests days 🤡
Since none of it is news anymore he could take the time to make it entertaining and about Korea and Koreans and not just one thing (as news tend to do). I'm a fan🙂
Been a newsletter subscriber of his for over a decade. I agree he’s always been that way. And i subscribe to ALOT of stuff but his was always the best because he’s an incredible writer.
Stop brown nosing he can't get you a job at Samsung bro.
1.4 M subs is underrated if so I would be happy to be so underrated
in South Korea if your parents are poor then you can't get a decent job in the big company
and let me guess... you rocked it in the US and smashed everyone else. Did'nt you?
 @backintimealwyn5736  Hahaha!  In a long process, I had to learn to relax and let loose, not being so uptight, regimented to organize and control my life all the time.  Need to balance.
 @stilldrop9540  sure, but it's easier than struggling to make any effort. the US and the west in general also need to balance, the perfect system is somewhere in the middle, I would say that it's closer to Korea than western schools (since we have to all make the same mistakes and copy our worst ideas) , we used to have more demanding education systems, a lot of pressure too, but not as much than Korea, things were so much better.
 @backintimealwyn5736  I've found it's hard to connect with relaxed, not-so-ambitious Americans.  Can't make friends because you're a weird quiet kid who just isn't cool or interesting.  I don't think being a nerd is very popular.
 @Isthisinterestingnow  I don't have that experience, I'm from Europe, so I can't tell. I did'nt go to highschool in the US. But when I used to visit as a teenager I could not integrate at all, I did'nt try that much anyway. And as a young adult the cultural differences made me "act weird", I was'nt saying the right things or making the right jokes. It's not their fault ,it was my job to make the effort, but I mostly gave up on friendship to do my own thing. One cultural difference I think is the culture of "popularity" rather than sincere friendship that is rather foreign to me ,it stayed that way. Then I left. It's not for everyone.
I don’t think that is entitlement. Having a different opinion from the majority and not being able to speak up about it is not something to be proud of. You should stand up for what you believe in. Also taking care of yourself is a responsibility. Overworking to the point of critical health or even death is not something to be proud of
​ @Treehustle476 I agree certainly there are a lot of entitled people but most men I know would be happy with very little I think it's the media pushing a lot of it
A little funny how you call out American sense of entitlement. From my view, the unbelievable demands on young people in your country is the ultimate sense of entitlement - perpetrated by your uncaring elders.
I'm really sorry you and your friends had to endure that, I hope you're doing great now
Bro if you immigrated in 1981 youre not rly a korean anymore, a korean american at most
The fact that you think critiquing societal norms or the government is a form of  entitlement, explains why the suicide rates in SK are high. If a societal norms or laws are killing the youth, people arent entitled if they speak out against it. Only though criticism can change happen.
 @Meowastic  I do not think critiqing societal norms or the government is a form of entitlement at all.  Sense of entitlement to me is the attitude that you deserve something without earning it.  For example, expecting that you/everyone should get a grade A in a class because everyone is special without making efforts to earn it thus fostering an environment of encouraging mediocracy; expecting (and depending on) the government to care of them, losing independence and individual responsibility.  If you read what I said, I was against oppressive Korean cultural environment at the extreme end, which is damaging.
 @Treehustle476  By sense of entitlement, I meant expecting to be given something you did not make efforts to earn, for example, an expectation and demand that everyone in a glass should be given a grade A, so that no one's ego will be hurt.  I think that fosters an environment of mediocracy, where kids get an A and don't know anything about geography, history, math, etc.  Most, of course not all, young people's ignorance is astonishing.
 @janepark227  Someone whose user name is "Caroline's vlogs" posted here "You're Korean not Korean American" 12 days ago, and deleted it.    I looked up the definition of Korean-American, and it means someone who is ethnically Korean but has an American nationality, which is who I am.  I lived most of my life in America, am an American citizen/nationality (I had to give up my Korean nationality when I became an American citizen in the 1980s).  I got educated in America (college & graduate school), worked in the private sector and the federal government for 30+ years, married to an American for 34 years.  I don't have an opportunity to interact with Koreans regularly.  I understand South Korea due to my earlier life, but my identify is more American than Korean.  When I visit Korea, I feel like a foreigner.
​​​ @stilldrop9540 that absolutely was in no way the attitude of 1981 in america. Not even a little a bit. Maybe 2021, but definitely not the 80s. If you were actually around america in the 1980s, you would know that. Snowflake attitude didn't come around until recently. I'm at a loss of what to say for your claims. Bc YouTube wouldn't like it. But it is foolish and completely false. I find your ignorance astonishing.
usa schools r like K schools. K model from USA.Both capatalist societies. Shame aussie turn same
From poor and alive to rich and dead. What a bargain.
 @Isthisinterestingnow  Please don't confuse "Relaxed" with having no ambition.  People should maintain balance in their lives.  A person can be very ambitious while also understanding how to give themselves the relaxation that is needed in order to stay healthy .... mind, body and soul.
Excellence and achievement is great and all, but if you're working yourself to death, then really you just served a prison sentence your whole life with no benefit to anyone really.  I lived that way for years and the burnout is inevitable, despite what people have you believe, humans are not these constablly adaptable machines.  There is diminishing returns and there is limitations.  You can only push your mind and body so far before you begin to destroy it.
Also the cat cafe scenes were too hilarious. Maybe the happiest version of Mark i’d ever seen
But how does resilience go with the highest number of suicides? Lovest childbirths? Highest beauty standards? Asking because I generally don't see it as resilience. I see a lot of adaptation, incredible competitiveness, incredible fastmoving innovation in all areas and a lot of other things🙂
Resilience? Gaza is a story of resilience, you guys live in luxury
 @ycc7744  Korea has been through quite a lot of trauma. Including the Japanese invasion and attempted erasure of the Korean people & culture in the early 1900s. Genocide most recently happened in S Korea in the 1950s. That wasn’t that long ago!!
 @ycc7744 absolutely. also the african countries that are still in civil war for years
Hey you should have also encouraged Will to stand up for himself to his boyfriend Jada.
I think the issue is that shame is one of the driving force of our resilience... Shame of failing and wanting to appear successful.
 @ycc7744  Lmao, I understand why you'd say this, but it's very shallow of you to bind yourself to a topic like Gaza like this, and then go around making other people feel like they have it easy. It's very hostile and anti-humanitarian to only think about for example people from Gaza as resilient just because you heard it on the news that they're going through horrible times. It doesn't require much empathy to be able to know that, sure, people in Gaza have it difficult, but that that doesn't discredit the struggles other people/countries have.
 @wiandryadiwasistio2062  Same response to you that I had to ycc7744. Backwards logic and an anti-humanitarian way to think that just because 'the african countries' (that I'm assuming you don't even know the name of but have just heard about from reading the headline of an article) are still in civil war, that this means that we can discredit the struggles other countries are going through.
 @ycc7744  It's like there's hundreds of people drowning, and you're saying to someone trying to help one of the people drowning 'No, leave them. This person I'm swimming to only has 3 seconds of air left.' And wanting everyone to just let the other people drown, just because you happened to find someone that only has 3 seconds of air left. You're not the center of the world, amigo. Very backwards way of thinking you have. Very shallow.
There is a high rate of suicide in Korea, while America has not only high suicide rates, which coexist with prevalent gun violence in America, contributing to mass casualties.
i disagree totally with adaptability. I live in Seoul and koreans don' t really take challanges , don t like step out from their comfort zone , being open minded and change their mentality for the better about many things in life.
Not all people are resilience, and there is no room for non resilience people in Korea, hence the suicide rate.
One of the best examples of how Koreans came together and displayed their resilient attitude was during the Asian financial crisis when many individuals donated their gold assets to the central bank so that Korea can pay back as soon as possible all the loans provided by IMF.  I dare say not too many peoples anywhere else would do such a thing.
 @ycc7744  maybe study up on Korean history before spouting things like that yeah? It hasn't been 100 years since the last war in korea, and they've endured so many invasions from Japan AND China. So yeah. Quite resilient. RESILIENCE is what allowed Korea (some koreans, not all tbh) to "live in luxury".
 @roxyglow9670  I think it's a different kind of 'adaptability'. They had to adapt with the Japanese AND Chinese invasions (that occurred not once, but many times throughout history), the korean war, and the fast changing society they had to build up from literally nothing after the war.
 @NigelUltra  A lot of nonsense, they have it easy and Gaza has been living hell for 75 years continuously, nothing to do with the news.
 @lawtraf8008  I'm not surprised that the hardcore Gaza supporters are heartless to other causes. It's one thing to say that Palestinians have it difficult, but to acknowledge the struggle people in other countries have. But to just say they have it easy because you happen to choose to support Gaza at the moment? Sociopathic. I know people in Gaza have it difficult, but I'm not gonna turn my back on other people who have it difficult, and tell them they have it easy. So mental health isn't an issue at all now all of a sudden hm?
I don't want to hear about honor and prosperity. I want to hear about empathy and compassion.
Good comment overall. However parents expecting gratitude from their children is part of the problem. If they don’t want the responsibility with having a child, then don’t have them. But to have them with the expectation that they base their entire life on pleasing you and making you proud is the height of ignorance. That is exactly the type of people that should not be having kids.  Ironically they probably had kids in the first place caving in to societal demands, so in a way they feed the cycle. The victim of the cycle becomes a perpetrator. SK is getting its karma now.
I LOVE YOUR COUNTRY. IT IS A BEAUTIFUL PLACE, FOOD IS UNIQUE, YOUR PEOPLE IS LOVELY, EVEN WITH ALL THE BAD AND GOOD THINGS.   I VISIT KOREA ON 2023, AND I FELT IN LOVE WITH IT FOREVER!
⁠ @thecrimsondragon9744 Having no expectations from your children is irresponsible parenting. A responsible parent should raise their children to be confident, hardworking, striving, respectful, independent and resourceful. Failure should be taught as a learning experience but not trying or giving 100% effort as more disappointing. Most Korean children, even in the West, are raised with such expectations or goals and they internalize these expectations/goals. They mostly want to make their parents proud as they understand sacrifices have been made. They grow up taking far better care of their elderly parents than most Westerners so Korean parents are doing something right. We generally don’t forsake our elderly into old folk homes, no matter the hardship. Competitiveness is in our blood. Survival of the fittest is very real in Koreans due to occupation and oppression. We aren’t raised to be nor do we raise strawberry children😅 Granted, I am speaking from a Korean immigrant and first generation Korean American perspective and my parents immigrated to USA solely to provide their children with more educational and career opportunities😅
Woah that's a lot of words  Too bad I ain't reading it
무슨 개소리냐? 어느나라든지  음과양이 있지 ᆢ 한국을  뭘 안다고 헛소리를 하냐? 삶은 어느나라나 치열해 그리고 그걸이기고  감사함으로 사는거지
Korean people tend to see discussions about mental health and psychiatric as taboo
​ @Nevermind-sb2dc  there's no interest to come back in a place with toxic people like you.
 @sunjoolee1850  To me it seems you have a huge collective burden that is weighing you down, and you can see it in the avoidance, and low birth rates. People know it's not sustainable but nobody is daring to anything about it. How would Koreans react if someone foreign would point (the painful) things out, and give a way to unpack those?
 @warpwa 헛소리가 아니라 다름을 인정하자는 이야기 입니다.  너랑 나랑 다르건 틀리지 않다는 것. 다양성을 인정하기.
영상에서 설명된 한국인에게 가해지는 경제적 압박과 파멸적 교육 등 유교와 자본주의가 부정적으로 융합된 혹사적인 가치관이 각인되어 붕어빵처럼 찍혀 나온 99%의 인간들... 거기에서 벗어난 사람이 기안84라는 말이지.
동의해서 한자 적습니다. 좀 약간 기분이 언짢은 파트도 있긴 했지만 말미에 <대한민국은 국가적 위기를 빠르게 극복해 내는 저력있는 민족이다> 라는 점에서요.
한국이 여태 극복해온 원동력은 2010년 전후가 최대 노동가능 인구시대였고 제조업으로 성장했기 때문임. 앞으로는 모든 지표가 안좋고 젊은이들이 무너지는 사회에 과연 극복가능한 원동력이 있을지 의문임.
The ironic and sad fact is that they are psychiatrists who are quite trying to make this country a better place
It is important to recognize and address mental health issues within any society, especially when they are so prevalent and normalized. It is brave of you to seek therapy and confront these issues that affect not only individuals, but the society as a whole. It is crucial to continue discussing and raising awareness about mental health in order to break the stigma and provide support to those who are struggling. Thank you for sharing your experience and shedding light on this important topic.
I think your words sounds a bit harsh. Which means it sounds like generalizing korean's as if every korean people are casualy talking about suicidal thoughts.
 @JSC-cw8cs  You're right, and honestly they are exaggerating and/or embellishing.  Or just around a bunch of toxic people.
 @ChristianC-gy1ym  its pretty true with koreas gen-z. most of my korean tutors(they change each month) are my age and we talk like a friend would most of the time(execpt for the super serious ones lol). they casually make a joke about wanting to not be alive after they make a small mistake like its normal.
 @shae1414  Nope, not at all true.  It's just a common figure of speech in Korea.  It's an expression of how fatiguing their life is.  We say "죽고 싶어" (jook-go ship-uh).  It's s super common figure of speech.  But when they're not very proficient in English, they translate it directly to English without learning what the English equivalent expression is.
 @ChristianC-gy1ym  oh wow thanks for this because this made me realize that I was the one making literal translations LOL! They would say something similar to that when they forgot about something and all i’d interpret it as is “I want to d!e” or “I do not want to be alive anymore”. Definitely need more exposure to the culture, so many things can be lost in translation without the proper knowledge
​ @JSC-cw8cs  You guys might not realize how odd it is for people to even casually mention wanting to kill themselves...even as a joke or a figure of speech. It's a very Korean thing. Have you ever wondered why life and work is exhausting? Why is it so exhausting to the point that people think it's normal to be that tired all the time? As someone who's always prioritized my mental health above all else, it bothers me when people work till 10/11pm at night, or until morning, and don't think that is crazy. No office worker should be working past 5/6pm!! (unless they really want to but def not regularly, or they are in a specific career that asks for late nights like IB/M&A).  To explain what I mean by "casually deal with severe mental health issues and substance abuse" further, I have to share a few more examples. They have public service announcements at subway stations to warn people 1/not to make a scene while you are drunk, 2/not to damage public property while drunk 3/not to assault public servants while drunk, and this is really.....wtf.......? Why does any of that need to be public service announcement? Obviously a lot of people drink themselves to oblivion and don't think that is a problem. I've also heard from many taxi drivers that drunk passengers insult and assault.  It seems as though Koreans busy with their lives/work as they already are, don't notice that this toxic culture is not healthy or sustainable. I really wish Koreans would at least start taking longer vacations.
...and this is why I went to Germany when the army offered it to me.  I miss Korea dearly, especially the food. Korean BBQ isn't the same in Paris or Frankfurt, BUT I ABSOLUTELY DO NOT MISS the constant competition that Koreans do with each other. As a foreigner, if you spend too much time there, the Koreans will rope you in with their foolishness.
 @shae1414 I feel like the most comparative English expression would be like “kill me” like “ugh kill me now 😭”. It’s not meant to be as depressing as it is but more of an expletive
 @shae1414 we sometimes say “I’m dying” and or “I wanna die” in America as well.
 @agarrikr2996  I’m not a child, I pay for it myself. In America it’s not really socially acceptable to say that in a serious tone, we say that with a very jokingly like tone here, they did not.
 @shae1414  well you didn’t specify the tone so I wouldn’t know. More interestingly, let’s delve into a more important subject:  Do you think the American society is any less “cruel” if I might say, or cold? I wouldn’t admit I also do harbor some self-inflicting extremist thoughts. But none seems to care, it seems that after high-school and generally once one takes a leap into adulthood, people grown older as we step into society. There is the occasional “how are you feeling” and the most common “hey how are you” but do these words hold meaning? If one were to say anything, the only conclusion would be perplexed stares, awkwardness and a feeling of burden. Wouldn’t you agree? Of course, I’m asking here, for you to take an objective look; if you will, not a subjective (what would you do) scenario. So, broadly speaking what do you think?
They are like those casual suicide memes you awkwardly laugh about.
Hmmm, I would say it is most likely more of a numbness. You can get used to speaking about heavy topics without emotions and while that does not allow for you to emotionally bond and get to release internal emotions and open up to empathy, it also builds a shell of resilience. For sure it is not the most healthy thing to do, but it is a simple thing to do, to be detached and dissociate from ones emotions. I feel like the issue the west has is that they do the opposite, they focus on the internal emotions and tie their suffering to immutable external factors (society or even say "I am depressed" (instead of saying that you have depression, which is a key distinction) and then have it as an excuse to not do things. Emotions are extremely complex to navigate and it is often easier to either ignore them or overly focus on them in poor ways(which exacerbates their influence over you, as you become a slave to your misery and identify with an unproductive victim mentality). The way to handle emotions is very difficult without the proper guidance or insight, there are a lot of mental rabbit holes one can fall into and it can be quite comforting to feel like it isnt your fault that you are the way you are; though one needs to be careful to not let this be the excuse that drives you away from the agency that might lead to small incremental improvements in one's life.   The victim mentality is so pervasive in the west where it now dominates. it is somehow a virtue to be oppressed and we overgeneralize oppression to be based on fictional group identities instead of personal experiences(because you exist as an individual not an amorphous group). It does grant an "identity" that one can cling to and external forces to blame (real or imagined) and a sense of belonging and a false sense of comradery, but these people cling to an idea that fundamentally allows one to forfeit positive change in ones life and hurts the people that it implies that it protects.   Well we cannot blame people, like always we foolishly spread ideology onto the masses (psychological jargon for example) without people to teach people how to healthily deal with these internal realities. We as humans are fundamentally lazy and afraid to face terrifying truths, so instead we cling to the idea that it is okay to be a lesser (and is somehow a virtue) or hollow out the human experience by becoming numb to it.  Either way, there is no easy answer, you have to be brave and go on an internal voyage and face yourself, only you can "change" yourself.   “Kindly let me help you or you will drown said the monkey putting the fish safely up a tree.” - Alan Watts  Pain is a emotion, it is not negative, that is what your ego has you to believe. Grow accustomed to it, stop running away from it, sit with it. When you run away from it you create friciton and an inherent adversity in it, as you fear it, but it is just you. Simply signals in your brain that are trying to tell you something. The signal might point to something bad or something wrong, but your reaction to the emotion is YOURS and you deem that the experience and not the underlying thing is the badness that plagues you, if you look closely.  Though for sure, as a society we will for atleast a while continue professing this ideology that all mental health focus is good focus, turning people into their own torturer LMAO.  Imagine you point to a wound on your knee and say that pointing at it is good. Then people go around suddenly poking at it more and more, and say "AWWW IT HURTS", ye dumb() ass you need to et some antibiotics and a bandaid, not rub it in lol.
 @agarrikr2996  I apologize, I should have specified lol. that’s a tough subject, I think both society’s actually have a lot in common, just in different ways. Here we are very open with most things even the bad things as well like being openly rude, violent and hyper sexual. Koreans care more about how they’re perceived socially and their status so they tend to do these things in private so it’s less visible, they have the problem in reverse in the sense that sometimes they’re too closed off.
Lots of people talk about suicidal ideation casually.  When these thoughts are chronic....non chalance is often the delivery style.....I'm kind of freaked out by people that find this shocking.
 @agarrikr2996  If we say we want to die in N. America though, people's ears perk up.  We have more awareness of depression and suicide prevention.  So someone saying things like that too much is going to get red flagged.  Its' not really the norm.  Something glib and over the top like, "kill me now" is more about dark humour.  Maybe Korea has that too?
I think that means they are being dishonest. And dishonesty is a major relational transgression.
​ @agarrikr2996  And that's also indicative of a larger mental health problem within the country.   Of course the phrase isn't literal in its meaning, but it points to how bad the problem is if a symptom of if has entered common language.
Can’t be a consumer without spending power, so you have to be a employee of some sort. Full circle achieved.
​@CaL-76  i suppose the guys best off are the big business owners, though I think even thats not true
You forget the rich.  Korea has tremendous class divide between rich and poor.   If you think the Rich enjoys privileges in US, wait till you go to Korea where rich do not even get pulled over by cops.  The rich can literally get away with murder.  Good thing the murder rate is so low. But why murder anyone when they bow and scrape and do whatever you tell them?  Whenever I visit Korea, I only speak English.  I refuse to bow. I act like a rude American and they treat me like a VIP.  First time I visited, I spoke Korean, I bowed, I showed respect and everyone treated me like I was homeless bum begging for a handout.
 @gengis01  crazy if true, but would also out movies like "Parasite" and "Burning" into context.
 @gengis01  그다지 공감 안가는 내용인데요. 빈부격차가 존재하는건 사실이지만, 그건 어느나라에나 다 있는 문제입니다. 또한 여러 연구나 조사들을 토대로 봤을때, 딱히 한국이 특출나게 빈부격차가 심한 나라도 아닙니다. 사회 보장 제도도 꽤 갖춰져있는 편이고요. 최소한 미국보다는 더.
 @mbrochh82  His statement is crazy exaggeration. Foreigners speaking Korean in Korea are treated very well. In fact, Koreans have "English-phobia" and don't like speaking it at all if they had the choice. If you take any Korean on the street and talk to them in English, most of them will freeze up and not know what to say lol.
Lookism is a thing in SK I believe that. SK also has the highest rate per capita in plastic surgery. The double eye lid and skin bleaching are popular procedures.
교포입니다. 영어가 부족하시다뇨! 넘 잘해주셨습니다. 꼭 알려져야 할 주제였고 인터뷰에 응해주셔서 감사합니다 댓글에 박사님 mad cool이라고 적혀있네요 👍👍 한국 사회가 박사님 말씀처럼 내일이든 일주일 뒤든 끝내버리고 싶은 나라가 아니라 앞으로가 더 기대되고 행복하게 더 살고 싶어지는 나라의 방향으로 갔으면 합니다.
Dude, you are so cool, and you’re English was great. Don’t worry about it. Thank you for what you do :)
I just want to say that your pronunciation is really great! Your English rivals that of a native speaker's.
I think it was pretty good! Don't judge yourself too harshly. You did a great job! 💯
As a korean, her comment sounds so korean to me. Despite her good interview n English, korean always finds their own deficiency. Her English n interview skill are more than enough, but still feel lack of confidence.
I find your answer the the last question quite puzzling to say it mildly...
It’s so funny how she talked about Koreans being perfectionist and  putting pressure on themselves and she’s doing exactly that in this comment 😂. 본인이 지적한 한국인의 완벽주의를 보여주시고 있네요. 인터뷰 너무 잘하셨는데 본인에게 너무 harsh 하세요 ㅋㅋ
 @fanta5778  본인이 가진 역량 대로 인터뷰를 했다는 얘기잖아요 완벽주의였다면 공부를 더 해서 인터뷰 하거나 댓글을 달았겠죠 아니면 아에 인터뷰를 거절했거나요 본인이 해석하고 싶은 대로 억지로 끼워 맞추지 마세요
Are you serious!? Your English is perfect and so is your humor 👌
Did a great job! like you said "who gives a fxxk!!!!"
You did a great job!! 😊 I loved your answers and insight.
서밤님 팬인데요 보다가 저렇게 서밤님이 영어를 잘하셨구나 하고 역시 엘리트시구나 하고 거리감 느꼈다구요(?) 넘나 멋졌어요 최고! But i totally understand her perfectionism and humble attitude. Since korean tend to judge and measure literally everything: fashion, ethics, university, financial status, and of course english, etc😂 I normally don’t write english in cyber world, and if i have to, i would double check via chatgpt stuffs. (But now im just writing no matter what the grammar is) Because i dont want to be on assessment field. And this would affects incredible low birthrate as well for sure. If we raise a child, we would got another point of judgement and assessment, which make us so stressful
They didn't need to put on subtitle. Your english was perfect. Of course, you're korean and there will be accent but that's how it is!  As you said, don't give a fuck. (Though it looks like you do 😂)  you did a fantastic job!
영어가 중요한게 아니라 메시지가 너무 좋았습니다. 정확한 문제를 전달해 주셔서 감사합니다.
글쎄요 영어가 문제가 아니라 한국사회 현상을 너무 일반화하고 비하하는 웃음이 문제였다고 봅니다. 조금 더 진지하게 응하셨으면 좋았을 것 같네요.
 @뽀뇨-r2j  남한테 가혹한 수준을 들이대는 거도 한국스러움임   글고 개인친분으로 나온 개인 유투브에 뭐 어떻게하든 자기 마음이지  그걸또 대중에게 평가를 받아야 되는거부터 한국스러움  ㅈㄴ 싫다 진짜 ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ
 @김디카-z6b  글쎄 나는 100점이 아니면 실패라고 생각하지 않는 한국인이거든. 나도 내 생각을 말했을 뿐 ㅎ
 @김디카-z6b 아니 ㅋㅋ 저분도 하나의 의견입니다. 좋을 것 같다고 했지 했어야한다고 강요하던가요? 님이야 말로 영상만 보고 “그게 잘못된거라고~” 우기시는게 아쉽네요.. 이것도 평가니까 이러면 안됐던것이죠?^^.
You were doing a GREAT job, thank you for your contribution. I agree, the economic, political and social reasons for this mental health crisis need a lot more consideration. No wonder that people do not want to have sex and then babies any longer, they cannot afford kids and do not have time for them. I've just read the famous novel The Vegetarian Woman. It was hard for me to understand why the protagonist stayed in her terrible marriage in the first place and take her life in her own hands. Well, I wish you luck and success in your country, in your professional AND private life. Greetings from Vienna, Austria, Europe, the city where Dr. Freud had to invent psychoanalysis (there were so many neurotics then) 😊.
인터뷰 하는데 그 웃음은 저만 보기 불편한건가요? 보다 중단했네요😢 취지는 좋으나 웃으면서 대화할 주제는 아닌듯 하네요 😮
You were amazing, both in insights and linguistically! Best part of this video
No. it's not English. Your concept and perception....Try to see around and pay attention more to Korea....please.
i bet u miss the cheap food and food stalls though😭
I'm actually second-generation Korean living in Australia. I'm so grateful that they moved here. But the commenter above me is right, the cheap food and food stalls are great I travel to Korea a lot.
 @dazdje  Traveling to Korea is fun and you can enjoy yummy  Korean food. However,  living and working there is different story, if you work there, average working hour is 50hrs, also minimum wages are like $10 (AUD) an hour, but the cost of living is almost same as Australia. You can imagine how hard Korean people's lives are.
 @dazdje  Don't like how you guys eat octopus. It's a very intelligent creature.
In general Koreans are less backstabbers then other asian coutries. Specially the islanders if you know what I mean… How do I know? I’ve been traveling most of my life. Perhaps you met some bad apples however moving out of the Country because of it does not seem genuine. It sounds like poorly written hate letter. Am I biased? Absolutely!
I totally agree. I had a similar experience except I came back recently. The toxic culture is still here but it is slowly getting better. I will be happy for you if you live your great life in Aus. I also hope you can find Korea much more relaxed when you come to visit here long time later. Good luck.
​ @Uchiha.watashi I recently went to Seoul and can easily say the food was delicious and the food at emart, CU and 7eleven is definitely better than what we get in Australia , but the cost of food wasn't cheaper by much compared to Australia.
What about the bullying and hierarchy? Some are bullied to death in the military and schools, only because they are poor, not good looking, or even just younger. I think it is a really big and serious problem existing in Korea.
Living in Canada and having no plans to visit, I don't often find myself watching videos about South Korea. This was quite informative and I enjoyed watching it. Thanks for sharing!
As someone practicing slow living, who went through growing up with a self-inflicted need to achieve and not getting into school like I wanted due to conflict with parents, this makes me grateful to live where I am. That I can actually take a breath if I wanted to, after years of pushing myself
한국의 문제를 받아들이고 해결하려는 모습 조차도 한국인의 모습 같음,,, 자신을 발전시켜야 살아남을 수 있으니 그럼 해보자는 생각이 내면화되면서 외부적으로도 적용하는 듯,,,  댓글을 보니 문제가 해결될 수 없다는 의견보다 나아진 한국을 그리는 사람이 많은 걸 보면 해결할 수 있다는 생각을 많이 가지는 걸 볼 수 있음 그래서 한국인이 resilience를 가졌다고 하는 말이 이해가 됨,,,
10:20 사람 앉혀 놓고 면밀히 외모 평가 들어가는거 상당히 한국스러움 ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ
Workaholic culture, limited sun light exposure, extremely demanding society and long hours exposure to blue light screen is a fatal combo.
외모도 완벽해야 하고, 옷도 멋지게 입어야 하고 피부관리, 자기관리 철저히 하며 연예인 부러워 하며 비교경쟁하고, 일도 잘 해야 하고 자녀 교육도 잘 해야 하고..합법화된 중독, 커피 중독자가 됨. 객관적인 시선으로 저를 뒤돌아 보게 되었습니다. 한국인으로서의 자부심도 크지만 냉철한 시야의 좋은 영상  감사합니다❤
"I... don't give a f***"... That delivery is the most factual, determined and yet sweet I've ever heard. I'll try to say it like this everytime I'll get to think that from now on.
19:09 요약 진짜 정확하네요 모두를 이겨야 하고, 누구보다 잘나야 하며, 한번이라도 실패해서는 안되지만 누구와도 공유할 수 없는 상황에서 얼마나 버틸 수 있을까요. 점점 개개인에게 기본으로 요구하는 사회적-정서적-물질적 수치가 다양해지고, 그 수준 또한 높아지고 있으니 이것에 지쳐 떨어져나가고 있는 사람들이 많답니다. 어떻게 보면 정말 엄격한 선별작업을 통해 최상의 몇몇 제품만 팔고 나머지는 버려버리는 장사방식이네요 ㅋㅋ
I grew up in Korea and I have to say this video is fantastic. That lady explaining that competitions begins when children are 6 or earlier was laughing, but I think it was very much self depreciating and it made me tear up a bit at my childhood memories. I was under immense academic and social pressure from a very early age and rarely was I told that everything is going to be ok, or that everything will work out in the end. It was just every day for me to feel seriously screwed for life and ashamed for the most trivial things, and I was one of the highest-performing kids anywhere I went. All it did was make me want to leave the country so desperately and I did. Now the culture has changed slightly but kids are still forced into the kinds of pressure and competition they should not be exposed to at their age. In the meantime nobody would check up on their mental health.
As a Korean, as rightfully said by Seohyun, it is changing and it will change. It just takes time for all the generations to acknowledge and recognize and value each other. All I can say now is that Korea is still in transition, trying to resolve these complex issues.
외국인의 눈으로 한국을 보니 역시 더 정확하게 보이는구나. ’모아니면 도(All or nothing)’ 성공아니면 실패라는 인지왜곡적인 교육방식과 그로인한 무한경쟁, 보수적이고 집단적인 유교문화와 자본주의의 물질주의적인 가치 상충이 한국인을 우울하게 만들고 있다는 내용인데 극히 공감된다. 집단의 책임감과 압박은 높고 자유와 개인은 없는 물질적이고 자본주의적인 성공도 함께 달성해야 하는 일타쌍피적인 압박…이러니 한국인들이 우울하고 피곤할 수밖에..ㅎㅎ 그나저나 출연한 한국인 정신과 의사형제들은 처음 본 미국사람 외모평가질 오지게 한다..
I currently live in South Korea (in the Southern area of the country). As an employed guest to this country I gotta say it’s an amazing place to be and experience. The people are wonderful, food is fantastic, and their history simply amazes me. There are cons, of course. The suicide rate scaling up is tragic and spoken about among my colleagues and friends; however, nothing seems to be changing on a legal or social level. I’m glad they are discussing it, but there is an umbrella of shame that if they change as a person or as a country that they are failing. The kids I teach are also in this camp. Some kids cry so hard if they miss one question on a 50-question quiz and think they are a failure. This becomes more so when the big school tests come around. I hope South Korea can overcome this, and quickly. If anything I’ve observed is that they really can do anything and in a short amount of time. They’ve accomplished so much. I hope they could also be the leader in accomplishing a social/mental revolution as well. ❤
This is not just koreans condition it's all over asians condition we suffered from three things in our place 1. Toxic parents and society 2. Toxic work culture. 3. Toxic education  Which made us to give up our life especially this is happening in east south east and south asia. Where culture are so tough you cant ignore them but you have to accept it. 😢😢😢
As a Korean, I think his video should be required viewing for governments, parliaments, and any organization that makes policy in South Korea. Very accurate than any other written or spoken materials ever made by us Koreans.
As a Korean who spent my childhood in Korea and moved to other countries during my teens, I can definitely see how competitive Korean society is compared to other countries. This video is incredibly accurate and relatable. Thank you Mark and his team for this informative video, my entire family has now watched it !
"난 세계에서 가장 우울한 나라를 여행했다." ㅎㅎㅎ 원래 '가장' 이라는 수식어로 단 하나의 대상을 콕 찝어서 말하진 않는데.. 주저없이..ㅎ 다른 나라를 여행하면서 한국만큼 여유없고 자비없고 경직되고 조용하면서도 살벌한 나라는 없겠다고 생각했었는데,, 이 형도 그렇다니 할말이 없다;;  흔히 가난한 나라가 가장 우울할 것이라고 생각하는데 못 먹어서 슬픈거 그거랑 좀 다르다. 가난한 나라 사람들은 이웃과 함께 '활기차게' 가난하게 살아가지만 한국인은 혼자 조용히 좋은 집에 살면서 우울하다. 배고픈 것은 그저 육체적 고통이다. 하지만 정신적 학대는 영혼을 망친다. 활기가 없다. 웃음도 없고. 여유가 없다. 좋은 커뮤니케이션의 실종,부재.. 우짜다 이렇게 됐는지 모르겠다. 30년 전엔 이정도는 아니었다고 생각하는데..
I used to teach English in a Korean school. Their education is brutal and yet it is very ineffective. They study from 6am to 2am. They memorise thousands of vocabulary words. It’s crazy and very ineffective. Why do you need to memorise the meaning of these voca when you could understand them using context clues. They memorise the voca and yet they struggle to use it in a sentence.’Also, they very aesthetic, materialistic. They always compare themselves to their classmates and this is the reason of their depression. Be it 6 years old or university student, they adapt the same study approach. It’s mentally draining.
I really appreciate your insights and advice for Korea. As a Korean, we need this kind of objective point of view and opinions from outside our society for a better change. Thank you.
I love the last sentence you said. "I believe they will find a way." Thank you so much for this amazing video about KOREA.
In a society where play time for children is consider wasteful, im not surprise if its an outlet for their congested emotions.
Korea isn't even the most suicidal country on earth it's ranked number 4
​ @德语与文化 More like the latter. As a China, i feel the confucianism doesnt have that much stress on age when talking about social status. Thats also a popular saying"学无长幼，达者为先"（whether older or not doesnt matter, the ability comes first）
Some get bullied because they are good looking. Jealousy is one of the strongest human motivations
 @donviajero2580  well if you count Greenland as a developed country which it fairly is it's 3x Korea's rate and it should mention in the video, the most depressing country that are developed with decent population not all including countries
The same happens in America. America everyone is depressed, the streets, the foods, the restaurants, schools, every aspect is depressing Americans who chug down meds to feel like they feel better. Also Obesityis a major issue.
That thing about bully because of being new or younger at something, are the disgrace for human skills development, discipline and the seed of nepotism.
even in high school kids are taught to bully each other out of the ranks
that ain't really big tho as a korean but actually have gotten much better otherwise the video is on point
Bullying is a serious problem in U.S as well. I live in the U.S. and children even still in elementary school are on the news for suicide due to bullying.
This is not specifically a Korean issue. This happens everywhere. And your specific examples are rare and not common.
yeah it’s mostly because of the age thing, about young respecting the older, which is stupid because u don’t have to respect people who don’t respect u, this is implemented in many young koreans and they will probably end up like many older generations in korea who own companies etc who are possible bosses
 @sherylyin5219  It doesn't really work like that in reality. First comes patriarchy (yes, it still matters), then comes age, then comes social class. Confucianism is all about respect based on birth and social class, not meritocracy. I'm also chinese, but wasn't raised in China. Its merely from my observation of the chinese community around me and relatives in China. Face is probably the worst aspect of Confucianism, but its the one that most Confucian influenced cultures care about the most. Let alone caring about family and community, that probably comes dead last.
From my experience as a Korean, the suicide rate is low because the military and schools leave little room for thinking about other aspects of life. However, Korea is also a highly hierarchical society, especially in the professional sphere, where jobs that require less academic background are often looked down upon as “stupid” jobs. This leads to intense competition for education to avoid that stigma. There has long been a notion that people who don't go to college are “surplus human beings,” and even today, there are many derogatory comments online about those who attended a “crappy local college” instead of a prestigious university.
😢 I just finished watching the Netflix series glory and mask girl, it's sad because it actually is true Stephanie Soo rotten mango does alot of videos about S Korea crimes
 @asclepiushermestrismegistu7489  As an american i dont agree.  Yes many are but there is a way for people to move up the ladder.  Some of the richest people in America are self made with no college degree... that would never happen in Korea.  They keep their feudal system even in modern times.  Also do not know if they have any type of social security network like in america.  There are many services to help the elderly .  Yes not perfect but  seem better than  in Korea and Chine.  Also the individualist mentality means your whole  family does not carry the shame of your failure.
 @Ajlinwonderland  Bullying has allways existed in america the problem is with the internet now what used to cover a few people can be spread all around the globe and  its easy for younger people who may not understand the consequences of their actions to have to live with them forever.  Not to say I dont see what you say but I also see a weakness  in how to deal with interpersonal issues.
 @kangkang4807  Is that wy so many kpop , actors and even a teacher committed suicide in her classroom or are the news the rest of the world see in error.
​ @kaesijoo444 . OMG!! I thought that Korean series Pyramid was just " creative" and an "out of the box" production. That reflects their reality?  Now hearing this, it is downright sad. And crazy!
My Korean ex could never talk about what happened to him in the military so it's deeply internalized trauma that nobody else knows about. All I know is it was intensely horrible
Your on the right path and setting an even better example ❤
향상심이란 것이 독이 되기도 하지만 동시에 해독제가 되는 게 참 아이러니하면서 재미있어요ㅎ
심지어 배웠다는 의사분도 저 나이대 이상 한국인들은 다 저모양이고 저게 뭐가 잘못된줄도 모름 ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ  초면에, 안친한데, 외모나, 재산, 연봉, 학교, 이런 민감한걸 전혀 꺼리낌없이 묻는게 한국문화  하긴 의사?였다는건 20살때 의대 들어갔을테고  그런 포지션으로 쭈욱 살았으니 ㅋㅋ 아무도 태클 안건 삶 살았으니 한국인 그 자체가 될수밖에 없었을듯
 @김디카-z6b  외모 평가도 그렇고 올해 20살이면 대학어디 가냐 ㅈㄴ물어봄. 대한민국이 남인생에 관심많은건 알아줘야됨
저 분들을 비난하고 싶다기보다는, '내적 자질이나 가치' 보다 '눈에 보이는 외적 특성' 이 더 많이 언급되고 우선시되는 사회 분위기, 이걸 대표적으로 보여주는 가치있는 자료를 제공했다고 생각되네요.
​ @김디카-z6b 진짜.. 본인한테 필요한 정보라도 물어봐도 되나요라고 정중히 말하면서 물어보는게 예의인데 남의 개인정보를 아무렇지 않게 물어보는 한국사회 너무 싫음..
ㄹㅇ 정신과 의사라는 인간들부터가 저러고 있으니 진짜 한국인 정병이 어디서 왔는지 알 거 같음ㅋㅋ
전 외국서 태어났는데 고딩때 한국 놀러갔다 캐스팅 돼서 아이돌연습생하다 제 나라 돌아왔는데요 한국은 너무 외모에 집착이 심한 거 같아요 진짜 내가 한국사람들이 부러워하는 작은 얼굴에 잘생겨서 천만다행이지, 저도 평범하거나 못생겼다면 엄청 힘들었을 거 같아요 누나들이 막 다른 형들 키가 작다니 얼굴 크다니 코가 어쩌니..  아니 ㅆㅂ 자기들도 가슴 작고 다리 짧고 못생겼으면서 왜케 남 욕하는거야
 @abcccdd1211  별로 안힘들아요 그리고 아이돌 연습생 세계는 외모에 대한 집중이 더 심하겠죠 ;;
​ @jakovisce 입은 옷이라든가 머리스타일이라든가 그 정도는 칭찬할 수 있겠지만 얼굴이나 몸매평가는 정말 무례함. 칭찬이면 다 괜찮다고 생각하는 사람들이 있던데 칭찬이든 비난이든 제멋대로 남 신체 뜯어보고 평가내리는 행위 자체가 무례한 것
 @Graceshin9151 맞아요. 저도 잘못된줄도 몰랐어요. 선진국에서는 외모얘기 자체를 자제한다고 하네요. 우리는 개그소재로 외모를 얘기하죠. 바뀌어야 합니다.
몇초 안되는 장면이라 앞뒤로 한 얘기가 더 많겠지만 저 한장면으로 1정신과 전문의라는 사람들이 참 무례하다는것, 전문의라는 사람들 조차 저러는 현실에 대해 한숨만 나오네요
외모칭찬은 원래 아이스브레이크 토크 주제로 괜찮음. 그 PC주의이후 외모로 하는것에 거부감드는거지.딱히 예의 운운할건 아닌듯.
제발 외모평가좀 안했으면 좋겠어요. 아무리 세계적으로 외모지상주의가 팽배하다지만 우리나라처럼 외모평가 심하게 안해요 ㅋㅋ(심지어 외모랑 상관없는 직업인 사람한테도 외모평가) 미개해보이니까 제발 입 다물었으면 ..
외국인이 kpop 아시안문화 게이같다는건 괜찮고 외모 잘생겼다고 하는건 창피한거고 ㅋㅋ 사대주의 지겹다 외국 스트리머 영상보는데 동양인 나오니까 채팅창에 게이거리던데
 @kimkim-nv9sl  그니까 그건 무례 RUDE 한거라고 ! 한국도 옛날엔 안그랬는데. 대충 90년대 이후로 TV가 주도하며 대놓고 남의 외모 평가질, 때론 조롱질 그걸 방송 연예계 코미디가 만들어서 널리 퍼트렸다는거야. 거의 한 30년 동안.
 @MyWay-zu4go  그니까 외국인이 숨쉬듯이 게이같다는건 안 무례하냐고ㅋㅋ 별 선비들을 다 보겠네 그리고 외국코미디 프로가 외모비하 더 심해ㅋㅋㅋ스탠드업 코미디 대충 봐도 한국은 상상도 못하는 패드립 인신공격하는데 한국 코미디가 선을 넘는다고? 진짜 사대주의도 적당히 해라 좀
얭 브라더는 좀 비호감이고 연예인 닮았다던지 잘생겼는지 여자 잘 꼬시게 생겼는지 하는것은 충격이네요. 잘 만든 비디오인데 잘못 퍼날러지고 있네요
Yeah, that moment, I had to rewind to double-check what I just heard from those two guys... That's quite sad and depressing moment of unveiling the "ugly korean" in very luxury way.
@HATELOSERMEN2016 대놓고 게이라고 조롱하는 영상이 몇백만조회수인데 웃고넘기는댓이 대부분인데? 저런걸로 예민하고 사대주의 가지는게 웃김 할리우드 스타들 살찌거나 비율 안좋으면 걔네들도 짤만들어서 조롱함. 명예훼손죄가 거의 없다시피해서 수위가 더 심하고 대체 한국이 세계 최악이다라는 논리는 언제까지 펼칠거
@HATELOSERMEN2016 눈치 개빠름 ㅋㅋ 근데 눈치때문에 내 의견 표현 못하는 멍청한 짓은 안함
저거 인종차별이에요 ;; 누가 한국인한테 싸이 닮았다고 하면 기분 좋나요? 진짜 무식해보이는 발언입니다;;
@HATELOSERMEN2016 저 정신과 애들은 무례한게 맞음. 다른데서도 말 되게 못 되게하는 편이라 안 봄. 외모 주제로 아이스브레이킹하는 것은 좋은 매너와 토픽소재이지만 저렇게 쓰라고 하는 것이 아님. 오늘 옷이 멋지다, 화장이 멋지다. 어디 옷이냐 이 정도선이지.
참.. 저 의사분들.. 대놓고 얼굴평가 하는거 한심하다.. 정신과의사 조차 저렇다니.. 반성하시길..
but it is accurate and actually funny. Also, being a womanizer is not a good thing
근데 나 미국에 가본 적은 없지만 미국 영화는 많이 보는데 걔들도 직업 비하하고 외모 평가하고 다 하던데 ㅎ "와 ㅆㅂ 너 jonna 구역질나게 생겼다"라든가 "평생 맥도날드에서 패티나 구우며 살든가" 등등 오히려 한국보다 더 찰지게 평가하고 비하하더만
​ @jakovisce  안나쁘겠냐? 여자들 많이 사귀었다고 알고 있는데 인스타 보니 멍미? 했다는데 ㅋㅋ 그리고 애초에 남 외모를 언급하는것 부터가 무례한건데 뭘 기분 안나쁘면 된거아냐가 왜 나옴
족발이 간첩들의 종특. 남의 나라에서 살면서 한국인 비하, 남녀 갈라치기는 종특이지. ㅋ
​ @김상-h1j 외국인들은 만나면 당연하게 이름부터 물어보고 필요한 거 아니면 나이 안 물어보거나 물어보더라도 조심스럽게 물어보는데 한국은 나이로 서열질부터 해야 되니까 이름보다도 나이 먼저 물어보는 것도 진짜 역겨운 문화 중에 하나임 진짜 무례하고 초면부터 외모 얘기하는 것도 천박한데 문제는 이게 당연한 게 되다보니까 그걸 모름 그래서 계속 반복됨 초면부터 예쁘다 잘생겼다 하는 게 칭찬인 줄 앎 그런 문화가 당연시 되니까 듣는 사람도 이상한 걸 못 느끼게 됨 또 반복됨 너무 역겹고 숨 막혀요
Despite the fact that the sun is linked to seasonal depression and literally our hormonal levels, being in the sun and any exposure to it is a taboo
Koreans are some of the most resilient and warm hearted people I have ever met; please do not take pride in others using you as a workhorse though, they don’t love you
dont take this the wrong way BUT could it be that way because asian people LOOK ALIKE ?
 @websitemartian Im Korean. You know what? yeah. this isnt exactly false. if everyone looks completely different, its hard to "compare" one another in terms of looks.   Korea is a single race country, hence making us look alike with each other. thus making it more susceptible to peer pressure and comparing
 @websitemartian  I understand the sentiment, but it really is based on your familiarity. The more experience you have the easier it becomes to notice the differences. I say "notice" because the differences were always there, but how can you describe the details of a tree if all you've ever seen is the forest from afar?
“I …. Don’t give a f….” This is probably the solution to their problems. They care too much about what thinks of them.
나쁜관점아닌뜻 개인적 과업과 국가가 어려움에 처해도 우리는 웃으며 일하며 나라를 위해 받친 애국시민입니다
​ @가-h4v  그게 애국시민이라고 해석하고 내뱉는 너도 진짜 대단하네.. 초등학교부터 다시 들어가라
 @Leaf77  잘살려면 공부많이해야함 그래야나라가 발전하지자력갱샌 1억불달성목표를 두고달려야 부자국가 푸른동산위에 놉니다 논땡이치고 하면 폐가망신이란걸 알고 보수정당을위해 응원합시다국민의힘만세
⁠​⁠ @가-h4v 스스로 생각하고 말을 뱉으세요. 한국은 자유민주주의 국가이고 생각없이 기계적으로 무책임하게 뱉는, 방종을 지향하지 않습니다. 국민의힘 만세? ㅋㅋ 어휴
그게 바로 나치의 방식이죠. 우월유전자론이요. 한국이 저출산되는 이유는 바로 이 파시즘이 깊게 들어와있기 때문이에요.
They won't change if they don't acknowledge the problem and have the political will to make structural changes to the societal system and expectations.   When something happens (last year, it was suicide of teachers, and suicide of another celebrity), there will be rallies, discussions etc.  Then it all dies down and nothing changes.
You can't say it will change when there's not even a starting sign to change. Meanwhile there are a lot of signs that it will get worse.
 @csking6377 bro he literally said it will just take time for them to acknowledge and recognise their own issues 💀💀
 @AliAli-et7zy i don’t think u can speak for koreans who live there or have lived there and say it’s changing but very slowly 💀 n ur name is ali so i’m sure ur from muslim country or smth so u wouldn’t know better than a korean
 @Uchiha.watashi  I am from Asia not from a muslim country and not an arab, so this is your first ignorance.   The second one is, my claim is backed by facts while yours is assumption and is backed by an empty hope. Family values are destroyed in SK because of capitalism, moreover the working regime is hard and it is getting harder instead of getting better. It will only get worse
그게 한국이 여기까지 오게한 원동력이니까. 둘다 취하는건 불가능했을거라고봄. 난 한국인들이 여유있고 성공실패에 관용적이었다면 동남아 수준 됐을거라고봄
 @탄량  ㅇㅇ 그야 누구냐에 따라 다르죠. 다만 전 불행했을거라 봅니다. 누군가는 흙파먹고 의료시설도 제대로 안되있어서 집에서 죽어나가도 행복함을 느낄 순 있지만, 전 그렇지 못햇을거라 생각합니다. 비교 관념이란게 뭔가요? 그냥 비교 아닌가요? 결국 물질적 조건이 충족되었음에도 우울한건... 그 사람의 마음가짐입니다. 후진국에선 우울할 틈이 없죠. 기본적으로 물가는 낮지만 소득은 그보다 훨씬 낮아서 정말로 말 그대로 하루벌어 하루 살아가는게 후진국입니다. 우울할 시간이 있는것 조차도 사치죠. 순간순간이 말그대로 생존을 위한 몸부림인데.
한국인은 개인으로서 다른 생각과 방향을 주장할 용기를 배우지 못해서 자신의 생각과 달라도 다수가 가는 방향으로 흘러가는 인생을 살아간다 자신의 내면에서의 목소리와 외부에서의 삶의 모습이 다른데서 오는 우울감과 패배감이 전반적으로 있는데도 그냥 그렇게 바보같이 살아감
@off7970 진정하세요. 님처럼 발끈하는것도 화병의 증상중 하나이며 한국인에게 쉽게 발견됩니다. 앞으로요? 글쎄요... 우리가 그걸 선택할 수 있는 입장이라면 저도 참 좋겠네요. 뭐든지 선택가능하다면 경제도 여유있고 사람도 여유있으면 좋겠습니다. 근데 그렇게 좋은 선택지가, [난 이렇게 할거라긍!]이라고 해서 존재할지가 의문이네요. 다시 말하지만 진정하시구요.
@user-getjswq1dheewi 하고싶은말? 난 앞으로에 대해 언급하지 않았던거지. 지금까지 그래왔다라는거였지, 앞으로도 그래야한다고 말하지 않았음. 한국어 이해가 가능하신 분이시라면 한번만 읽어도 알 수 있는 내용. 그걸 마치 앞으로도 그래야 하냐고 대뜸 말하는 사람한테 하났냐고 하는것뿐. 하지도 않은 말에 발끈하니까. 님도 화가 나셨나요?
This was my experience to fit the first 6 months. Now after 2 years now I can say it's not a place for humans (not a happy place anyway). It's a black mirror episode.
We have saying, as you guys might do, when there is a disease, there follows a cure. I see the liberation is on the way 🙂So hopeful. Btw, Happy new year!
 @10secondsrule “It's not a place for humans" i think you are over-exaggerating it.
You are asking someone who designed this system to break down the system , and it is not going to happen. SAD
Just that it does not relate to facts. Just to name a few alcohol consumption is at the same level as Germany and France. Depression rate in USA  is significantly higher . Depression rate in European countries is much higher than in South Korea, with Spain that a depression rate twice that of South Korea..
Do you think politicians would care?  These individual politicians know only themselves and they are not there to fix the issue, they are THERE to build their wealth.
I think it's also that policymakers in general are lazy and the only time they seem to do their jobs is when enacting things that benefit the wealthy/elite. That's why most societies have policies that are 20+ yrs old​ despite rapid changes that would dictate they need to be updated every 5 years at least @flatfish72. I once heard a policy person where I work say the mark of good policy is it never making it into the news. As in it needs to pass without/as little public awareness as possible.
The first time that I saw the Koreans talk about the severe pressure that the students get  was during the 1980s. Not only has nothing improved, it got more terrible for the later generations. The parents fear that their children would get behind if they don't push their children harder.
30년 전에 앞만 보고 달리느라 자기 자신의 개인적 행복을 어떻게 돌보고 우선시하는지 방법을 모르고, 그 방법을 자녀들에게 전수하는데도 실패했다. 이것이 그 결과이고, 이 새로운 세대가 행복하는 방법을 배우고 소수의 자녀들에게 그것을 전수하는 데 성공하고 세대 교체가 이루어지기까지 우리는 필연적으로 앓을 것이다. 하지만 시간이 지나면 결국 회복하리라. 급성장한 만큼 비용을 치르겠지만. 그러므로 이 젊은 세대는 이기적이라고 욕을 먹을지언정 행복하는 방법을 배워야만 한다.
i really love the ending of this video, cause he even though there are many issues he realistically showed hope and the last seconds of the video asking the psychologist does she care what others might say and her saying 'i dont give a f' was brilliant. It can be a funny moment but at the same time it shows how the society is changing and proves the point that it might get better.
Since the 1980s, the Koreans have been criticizing the pressure that the students get and it was talked about on the media. But it continued to get even more terrible for the later generations. Parents fear that their children might get behind if they don't force them to study more.
Wow could've easily watched a whole series of your experiences in Korea! Your insights into Korea's cultural and educational landscape really resonated with me. Being Korean American, I feel a deep sense of pride in the strong work ethic inherent in my heritage. I'm also grateful to have grown up in America where I had a chance to express my individuality. The blend of Korean resilience and American freedom has instilled in me a confidence that I can achieve anything I set my mind to.
this is a great video. I've been to south korea many times myself and absolutely love it there...as a visitor. having gone so many times, i've seen the good and the bad, especially in seoul. i learned a lot from interacting and making friends with locals but i've learned even more from just observing. the country and its people are beautiful but they have their challenges too. getting to immerse oneself in the culture really opens your eyes from the glitz that represents them in media. you get to see the reality of it all and that's very well reflected in this video. truly, truly well made.   also, heh. 13:06 had to double take to make sure it's felix lmao
As a expat who has been living in Seoul for 4 years, I think this video beautifully sums up the situation in Korea. All of these points are true and I have seen it myself. I have had conversations with coworkers and friends about these things. The differences between Korea and the US/Western world. The biggest difference is definitely the view of mental health and accessibility. I realized how uninformed many Koreans are about mental health and mental disorders. They are surprised at how open I am about these topics and how my friends have been open to me when I tell them stories of my friends' struggles. I will say the younger generations are much more open to talking about mental health and making mental health a priority. Some children I work with are getting help and treated. However, there are so many that view any mental health issues, disorders, or disabilities as a weakness and will try to hide it or choose to ignore the reality that it is happening to them/a loved one. One friend who teaches kindergarten told me how one of their previous students definitely had some kind of mental disability and the parents were in formed this child should be tested. But the parents refused because they say "nothing is wrong with my child." Instead of identifying it early and getting help and treatment that will help their child cope and function well in life, they choose to ignore it because they don't want their child singled out.  The work culture is also brutal. Just as the video says, many work crazy hours even if they don't have work. OR they have so much work, they work crazy hours. I had a friend getting 2-4 hours of time at home (getting home around 4am and back at work at 9am), with no overtime pay, and crazy pressure of having to complete a bucket load of tasks and some of those tasks she was not qualified or had the education to actually do. She did this work schedule for months! And to add another factor into the mix, the birth rate is low and the government is trying to encourage people to have children. However, how can it be expected for a person, who is barely seeing the apartment they rent, to have the time for a relationship and then have time to raise and care for a child? Very unrealistic.   Even as a foreigner, I have felt the pressures as well. I am supposed to be a "role model" and "example of a good citizen." Which is fair, but there is no wiggle room here to be human and make mistakes. I feel judged or that I will be judged. And as an averaged sized American, the stress about my body image during my first year here was strong. I've grown to not care about it now but that first year when you are thrown into a society all about image, you start caring too when you realize how much everyone cares. I love this country. It's beautiful and the culture is beautiful. Generally, the people are wonderful and nice and the food is to die for. However, I have felt weighed down and stifled so I actually am returning home after 4 crazy years of fun but also awful experiences (but mostly fun). And most of my friends feel the same way and are leaving one by one, some of them taking Korean SOs that want out too. There are so many factors to this decision so don't weigh it all on Korean society/mentality as a whole, but it is a factor.
living in seoul for 5 years now, this is the most perfect explanation of how things go here
17:40 This is so freaking true. My mom is clearly suffering mentally in various ways, yet she refuses to seek counseling or help from mental health professionals. I struggled with panic disorder for three years, and she always asks me, 'Can't you just overcome it?' No, mom, this is emotional abuse, seriously.
Brilliant!! Thanks for this video. I have been to SKorea once, and plan to return. I like that this video has an optimistic ending.
호주같은 나라처럼 석유나 석탄등 자원이 많은것도 아니고 일본이나 영국같은 패권국가가 아닌 나라가 살아가기위해서 오로지 사람들 갈아서 만든나라가 한국이지.. 그래서 서로 끝없이 경쟁하게 만들고 지면 도태된거고 그로인해 정신적 스트레스는 끝없이 올라가고.. 이 나라가 살기위해서는 어쩔수없는 선택이었다고 생각함 진짜 사람말고는 자원이 아무것도 없었으니까
Fantastic summary of Korean cultural uniqueness and the events that led to where they're at today. The other layer is the economic decisions that led to the Chaebol dominance in the economy. As someone who has enjoyed learning about Korean culture since discovering KDramas during lockdown (and then learning Korean as a hobby) I have found that KDramas are doing a decent job at exposing and discussing the challenges and taboos in their society. Not just the usual taboo relationship tropes. Dramas like DP that expose the mental health issues in military service and My Liberation Notes that explore the grinding commutes and hopelessness of climbing the ladder.
한국인이 이런영상 만들면 "소말리아 보다는 낫다" "지잡대 나온 애들이 이런 소리 하더라" 라고 조롱했을게 뻔함..  외부에서 보는 시각으로 문제를 너무나 잘 꼬집어 주셨습니다. 감사합니다.
I’ve been resisting from watching this video even though it kept on popping up on my feed, as I feared it would be too depressing to watch. But wow, i got sucked in, watched the whole thing in one sitting without skipping. I’m glad that Mark found resilience in Korean people and some hope in the country I was born in. Thank you for the good work, it is very well made.
I was expecting a normal travel video. You're delivering much more than what we would expect. Cheers.
As a Korean middle-aged man having two kids, this is a really well-made documentary. I couldn't agree more . A few years ago, I moved to Canada with my family. That's a good opportunity to compare my home country and North American culture. And now I realized how depressed my life was. And I thought that was just normal life that everybody on the planet has. Now I know it's not.
People, family, culture, society and country are inseparably linked. In my country there are thousands of songs and poems about love for the homeland and people. Every time we encounter difficulties, we just need to listen to a song about our homeland to feel all our troubles disappear, life becomes precious and our souls become more peaceful. That's why we value life extremely. Thinking simply and peacefully, happiness will come from the simplest things
I'm a Korean who immigrated to America after college. 3 minutes into this video I realized I'm living the South Korean life even in another continent not because I was forced to but because I volunteered to literally grind myself to excel at work. My biggest challenge while working in the Western corporate environment has been having to work at other people's pace.. Because I wouldn't let emails sit in the inbox for longer than 12 hours, I don't want any dirt on my career, don't wanna take the blame when things go wrong against my wishes whereas my colleagues take that morning coffee and take a full hour lunch outside the office. So I definitely overwork myself and I know it. I just can't help the way i am. It's been helping me progress but at the same time I'm aware this isn't sustainable in the long run. It gets tough when I can't even have the time to seek assistance in mental healthcare although I could. I'll eventually give myself a break but I realize I really need to look after my mental health.   Thank you for covering South Korea with clear insights. Very impressive I am now subscribing your channel!
I am German but live in Korea for the past 4 years. I absolutely love it here, but I know, that is, because the societal norms and pressures for Koreans, don't apply to me as a foreigner. And I don't work a 9-5 job. Korea is a great beautiful country, but it heavily depends on, what you do for work and how financially free you are.
Being a foreigner that lived in Korea, I always pointed out the dichotomy of the society. The glitz and glam that you would often see but a couple streets away it would look more like I stepped back in time a couple decades. Seoul was an amazing experience but I know as someone who didn’t work in the Korean economy, I didn’t fall under the societal pressure that they did. I got to experience all the up sides with none of the downsides. I would love to go back to Korea and experience more of the culture and especially the food!
I love how educational  this is, I also  like how the research  is contucted and the history of South Korea  is also taken into consideration. The psychology and sociological  perspective  is well depicted. Ovarall Mark highlighted the positive aspect of this perfectionist lifesty while raising  an awareness to the need for a solution.
가진 게 인적 자원뿐인 이 나라의 원죄지... 그 전성기는 충분히 뜨거우니, 이젠 조금씩 식어가며 우리의 원래 자리를 찾아갈 때가 되지 않았을까? GDP, 국력 등에서 굳이 세계권이 아니어도 돼, 대한민국아. 넌 충분히 뛰어난 나라야...
당신의 따뜻한 마음과 좋은 의견에 감사합니다. 현실은 당신이 말한것보다 한국은 더 최악입니다. 정말로 자본주의와 유교의 나쁜점만 갖고 있습니다. 나도 한국이 변하길 바라지만 쉽지 않습니다. 많은 사람들이 영상을 보고,  뭔가를 느끼고 반성했으면 좋겠습니다. 감사합니다❤❤❤
I would say its the korean culture because they are not evolving with time but holding on to how the older generations have been over worked
This is really sad, I was one of the people who standardized Korea because of what I saw in kdramas, I still dream of visiting Korea and i think it's good that people are more open to the importance of mental health.
좋은글 감사합니다. 우리의 성취를 마냥 즐길데가 아니군요. 자본주의와 유교의 최악의 결합. 외모에 대한 스트레스 징글징글합니다. 주제넘는 외모평가도 신물나구요.
As a Korean, I agree with your points about the importance of mental well-being. However, in Korean society, fierce competition starts at a young age, as early as elementary school. This creates a paradox: while mental health is recognized as crucial, current solutions often fail to address the issue at its root, which is the relentless pressure to compete. Even though individuals pursue success in various aspects of life, from academics and careers to marriage and social standing, the constant struggle to "win" fuels the prevalence of mental health concerns. Eliminating competition entirely, however, wouldn't be a viable solution. Korean society has achieved significant advancements through its emphasis on hard work and pushing individuals to strive for excellence. The challenge lies in adapting to changing times. The current competition-driven model, championed by older generations and politicians, no longer aligns with the needs of today's society. Maintaining this approach only exacerbates the situation, as evidenced by the unprecedented decline in birth rates, surpassing even war-torn nations. While competition can be a positive force, the rigid, one-size-fits-all approach stifles the potential of individuals with diverse talents. To thrive as a nation in the face of evolving global needs, we must cultivate diverse fields for competition, fostering creativity and efficiency across various fields. It's crucial that older generations and policymakers acknowledge the need to move beyond the singular focus on competition and embrace a more multifaceted approach that allows individuals to succeed in different ways.
 @Queensaac  I had noticed one thing that was said - the old generation teaches to the young one (and this is so in my own country of Bulgaria) that if you have a good education, you will have guaranteed success, e.g. money, good job, pretty wife/husband, etc... since that was true for them, but sadly it is no longer true. Good education does not guarantee you anything anymore. It is only the start, so to say. So, if you approach your life with the mentality that you will be at the end of the race when going out of the university, you will be unpleasantly surprised, confused and not knowing which way to go - all pushing you into depressive states.
I am from eastern asia and now live in Australia and western countries have the opposite problem.  White society wear mental health like a proud badge, even celebrate it.
How could they be informed about mental health when they don't have any mental health?
As you mentioned, low birth rate is a serious social issues in Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Japan.  In these countries, people had to work hard but most of them realize they will not get paid as much as their seniors used to receive.  They recognize their effort will not paid off in their life.  They recognize their quality of life is low and will not be able to earn self-affirmation. If they feel their QL is low, how can they feel comfortable to marry someone hand have a child?  How can they feel happy to have a child? We will not able to solve this issues unless our QL is improved.
It's wrong that all the points are true. It's not true that you have to wait for your boss to leave before leaving yourself, you can't contradict your boss, etc. That may have been true in the past and it's possible some companies are run like that, but as a general rule to apply to the culture it's definitely not true
My family immigrated from Korea to the US when I was 12.  When I went to school in Korea, the pressure to do well was so intense that I still suffer from PTSD after 40 yrs.  My older sister, my younger brother, and I have all done really well (the academic standard in the US is a joke compared to Korea) because of how we were raised in Korea but I feel like I would have never made it had my family stayed in Korea.  Yes, I also refuse to see a psychiatrist because I think being stubborn and being self-reliant is the definition of Korean mentality. hahaha
my parents were pretty open to me getting mental help because we lived in the US for 5 years a long time ago. But they still have the mindset of: "if you're traumatized or hurt by what someone has said/done, that's on you because the same thing might not impact others the same way, so just get an apology and move on".   It's frustrating to me because I bring up the past because I feel like it NEEDS to be addressed for one to actually move on and make peace. Especially when it's caused by your own parents, and we'll have to see them for a long time until they pass.
 @mspsys  as someone who has overcome depression I think talking with yourself is better than a psychiatrist. Or talking with people that are in the same situation also helps, though they are hard to find. The point is you are not alone in the way that you feel.
Australia is no different to Korea in that case. Heaps of homeless, all our money and resources go overseas
Your description is more suited to Japan. No oil, no coal, tons of disaster especially eartquake, and 70% land covered by mountainous terrains with litte room for 125 mil population, Japan is much worse than Korea. Korea is still pretty normal and better compared to Japan in the terms of the survival.
 @g1_jiwon_  스웨덴도 자원하나도 없고 인적자원만 있는데 우리나라처럼 경쟁 안심하고 외모든 직업이든  남무시하는 문화도 없음..
I suppose the popularity of the film Squid Games reflects this intense competitiveness.  The film which I personally found distasteful now makes more sense as it speaks to this issue.
I want you to improve not only your appearance but also your inside.
​​ @momok9263 서울 바로 위에 바로 북한이고 서쪽 황해바다 너머서 중국인데 한국이 일본보다 상황이 좋다고? 바보냐?
The jaebol dominance is a product of Confucianism and capitalistic policies post-Korean war. Mark did an excellent job succinctly summarizing it as "the worst parts of Confucianism and worst parts of capitalism".
"My Mister" is a Kdrama that I recommend to people.  It's accurate in the way it portrays their mentality and social pressures.  Also a really well made series.  Now made even more poignant with the main actor Lee Sun Kyun's recent Su1c1de.
맞아요 한국의 문제점 객관적으로 얘기하면 인도나 파키스탄 이런데가서 살아봐라 이런말만 나오더라구요 ㅋㅋ 그리고 교육문제 심각하다고하면 그래도 스카이가서 잘사는 사람들 많다면서 낙오자 취급하며 조롱했을게 뻔해요
 @arianahaart5457  맞습니다... 문제 파악하고 개선, 발전할 생각은 안하고 파키스탄 보단 나으니 입다물어라 이런 태도는 진짜... 어이가 없더라구요
동감합니다. 폐쇄적인 사회에서는 아무래도 자정능력이 제대로 기능할 수 없죠. 최근에 와서 그나마 옅어졌다고는 해도 여전히 우리나라는 폐쇄적이고 집단주의적인 면모가 남아있다고 생각해요.
So in a way, it's true that the North Korea is happier than the South.
 @JSC-cw8cs  Material abundance is not the only measure of a person's happiness
 @체리-d3p  It sounds counter-intuitive that North Koreans are happier than South Koreans, but we shouldn't lose the ability to reflect on ourselves
@verslesoleil2533  Yes, you're right. North government killed people, and most children are dying because of starving, but yes, north children are happier. You should talk to other people what you think. Everyone~ some YouTube repplier said North is better than South, so keep it in mind.
집단 내에서 누군가 건전한 방식으로 문제를 제기하면 입막음 하려는게 한국인들 특성 같아요. 그 누구도 당당히 문제의식을 제기하지 못하고 해봤자 너는 뭐 다르냐는 식으로 나오기떄문에
​ @verslesoleil2533 물질적 풍요가 행복의 척도는 아니다. 물론 북한도 예외가 아니다.  그러나 북한은 정신적으로 건강할까? 나는 부분에 대해서 오히려 더 많은 의문점을 남기게 된다.
5060만 그런줄 알았는데 인스타보니 2030들도 그러는 애들 많더라... 마지막에 한국은 그래도 길을 찾을것이다 뭐 이런식인데 이런 2030 들이 커서 더 나쁘게 만들것같음
You should have been resisting, because it simply lies in the title. And i'm here to just confirm that.
Great story. But you really need to stop working so hard. You are giving a bad example for the corps what to expect from workers. We don't want to turn into SK 😂
As a westerner living in east Asia, I did experience all the pressure at work which has end up with a burn out. But I did manage to go over it and learn my way of handling pressure, simply go with life flow, especially I realized one thing, we all keep thinking “after I do this I will feel that”, but the reality it’s we should be living in the present. the energy is real.
I suggest a more concrete gradual approach. I work full throttle in the office. But I take the hour lunch. After eating, I go to shops, but don't buy, or a beautiful church, read in the church garden, etc.. I must plan carefully for my brisk walk back to the office to be on time. I also take super mini breaks by having some clean snack and tea at the desk, so I have to look up to take a bite or sip. This is subject to bosses allowing food, but it does make you slow down a bit. Sign up for yoga or other active class once a week to start. Don't be available for overtime, because you have a class. Good luck.
Your effort will pay you back probably more in the US than Korea.  You are doing the right thing.  If others around you don’t grind as much then why do they drink and do drugs more than you?  Don’t stop.  Feel free to slow down temporarily but keep going. Fighting!
what i find is the most important 'quality' to have and that will help your career in western workplaces is knowing whose bum to kiss and suck up to, social manoeuvring, being likeable...if anything, if westerner colleagues see you work hard and do better than them, they will resent you.
I guess that’s why characters in web toons often have the story of dying from overwork 😅, must be a real common thing.
One of the most important things I've learned recently is to put my health and wellbeing first. So no impossible deadlines, no overnight work, no postponing a break or dealing with my issues when I need it, fuck that. Nobody will care for my needs and health if I don't, certainly no an employer. I'm convinced that in the long run, that also makes you a better worker and person overall. A healthy, happy and motivated one.
I worked at Samsung for 2 years and I realise that I took the work ethic of hard work no break no holiday to my next job - I literally overperform and did not take a days leave last year and also since I left Samsung.
I had lived in NYC for 2 decades before I escaped to West coast. I'm Korean. Didn't know there are other way of living until I m here. Growing up in Seoul living NYC is another (fancier) version of living in Korea.. where there are still hierachy (different way),  pressures from unknown others .. you can't completly escape from these anywhere you go.. but by being still or slow it helps you find it, ie. liberating, that begins from the inside.
Your mental health is your first priority.  I'm telling you right now, if you break it will take YEARS to put yourself back together.  Take some time to recharge, see a therapist and just do whatever you want.  Unless you're literally being mentored by a senior college to be the next man up, take it easy, they don't gaf about you or anyone else.
You can take the Korean out of Korea, but you can't take the Korean out of the Korean...
아 진짜 완전 이해합니다. 캐나다 살지만 여전히 강박증에 시달려요. 이제 좀 나아지는거 같지만 여전히 알수 없는 프레셔에 시달립니다. 우리 이제 좀 내려놓자구요.
Well, you Germans have pretty strong work ethic as well, nothing like Korea of course, but in European standards, you’re probably the leaders. ✌️
As a German-Korean, you might appreciate your mirror image: a Korean-German philosopher named Byung-Chul Han!
To be specific, don’t apply to Westerners, East Asian in SK are all under that same pressure.
I had to comment because this is true. As a Korean, the suffocation is too much to bear. Makes me feel like I want to end my life every other day. But as a Korean-American, the anxiety is not as bad (still bad but not as bad). lol... It's still pretty bad though. Wait until you hit year 6. lol that's when even foreigners go insane...
this is the story of any kind of expats . usually, you have a better life than the average local . i have traveled and worked in too many countries. its all nice as long as you are an outsider. 4 years is not enough to gauge one place. once you hit 10 years or so you really start to see another side of a place.. i call that place Fatique lol so i usually move to another place after that.
nope.before 15-20 years probably but now even the germans say the opposite   @TikuVsTaku 
Yup There are much enjoyable aspect of living in Korea.. some say if you have enough money Korea would be the one of the best country to live. Services industry is great
 @josepheapen7690  Humm I'm an expat in US.. in a good way it's nice that you can avoid the place fatique but you never gonna experience the real country then..
 @TikuVsTaku  I've lived in Germany and Korea.  Koreans work far longer hours, but Germans are vastly more productive.  There's a huge efficiency gap.
 @josepheapen7690   Have you lived and worked in Korea? Just asking, because I’ve heard from many foreigners, how badly they were treated by their employers. Some of the stories are pure horror. ✌️
 @phatphil7836   Still? Ok, that’s pretty interesting. Germans are super efficient though. Are Koreans innovative? I mean, Samsung is a huge success story, but the whole thing was pretty much stolen from Apple. ✌️
 @TikuVsTaku  Both countries definitely have a lot to be proud of in terms of industry.
Exactly!! your prospective is very accurate and amazing. I applaude you. haha the most accurate opinion I've ever seen as a Korean!
I also recognize the same could be said about America in the fact that there is a big difference in Beverly Hills and somewhere like Compton but it felt more in your face and kind of surprising in Korea.
It was neat reading about your perspective as an average Black dude.
Regarding your second comment,  I second that. The huge differences in the neighborhoods in LA are obvious. Even just going across the street, you can notice the huge economic crises in the transient populations and the homelessness due to the extraordinarily high cost of housing.   ​ @AverageBlackManJ 
There are dichotomies in pretty much every society, kinda makes it interesting. It is often easier to notice if you are coming from the outside, though.
 @ssssssstssssssss  this is definitely true. In your own society, things just seem normal as they are. When in a different location, you pick up on things that are different because nothing there is normal to you.
How long did you live there? It's interesting if you stayed for a long time but didn't experience the downsides either
한국이 여태 극복해온 원동력은 2010년 전후가 최대 노동가능 인구시대였고 제조업으로 성장했기 때문임. 앞으로는 모든 지표가 안좋고 젊은이들이 무너지는 사회에 과연 극복가능한 원동력이 있을지 의문임.
한국엄마들은 아들이  스타크래프나 온라인게임에너무 많이 빠져서  정신없는건 진짜싫어하는데 어쩔수없이 참고있다는사실....속에서 화가나 천불나는데....유행이라는데어쩔수없이...
​ @daibidal5646  ㄹㅇ. 당장 동생만 봐도 페이커같은 유명한 게임하는 사람이 되겠다고 하루 13시간 게임하고 공부도 그냥 대충대충 하고 사춘기라 그런지 말도 안 통하고... 그깟 게임 유행이 뭐라고... 게임 중독자가 많은 현실... 답답하기만 하죠.
외국나와 살아보면 아 내가 살던 한국은 정말 행복하고 사랑스러운 사람들이 많았구나를 알게 될거니 꼭 서구권에서 살아보세요…
 @블토리  어느 직종이나 성공하는 숫자는 극소수고 대부분은 프로선수하다가 비제이로 전향함 누구처럼 ㅋ
​ @블토리 그래도 본드중독 당구중독은 안걸리잖아. 영상에서 말한 유교와 자본주의의 안좋은 모습을 그대로 답습하시네.
 @Chanel_77-u6e  웃기고 있네 ㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋㅋ 요즘 많은 젊은 한국인들 해외로 워홀 갔다가 여기가 천국이였구나 하고 정착하는데
 @user-FULLJohnson   한국 서울에서 먹고 살만큼 살았으면 서울보다 좋은곳은 없다 ㅋ 그럼 부자들이 진작에 이민 다 갔지 ㅋㅋ 말같지도 않은 소리를해
 @Chanel_77-u6e  서울만큼 좋은곳 없는데 왜 시민들은 불행한거임? OECD 워라벨 최하위에다가 불행지수 상위권인데?
 @woodyland86  Very perceptive comment. Travel (i.e. visiting other countries) is the best way to understand your own country.
 @woodyland86 우물안 ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 영국에서 학교다녔는데 진심 한국이 최고임 병원 스킬 치료 최고 삶의 편의성 친절함 놀거리 위험성 다 한국승 물가 한국승 영국은 직원알바 그냥 막짜름 한국노동법 승
I think this could be a series, great multi-faceted demonstration of the culture, great job with the editing too!
I’m too immature to even get past 1:25, “We ❤️ the Dong”. Omg I’m crying. Thank you for that alone.
신경끄기의 기술을 읽은지 꽤 오랜시간이 지났는데 다시 한번 읽어봐야겟습니다. 미국인이 본 한국사회에 대한 깊은 통찰입니다. 한국에선 면이 서다 라는 표현이 있습니다. 지금은 잘 쓰지 않지만 과거엔 많이 썼던 표현입니다. 이 표현이 유교문화에 대한 많은 것을 말해 준다고 생각합니다. 보여지는 것이 중요한 문화 번듯한 직업 집 차 나이 외모 등 그사람의 연령대에 따라 주어지는 퀘스트를 해결하지 못하면 사회적 낙오자로 여기는 것. 심지어 그것을 개인이 무의식적으로 동의하는 것 같습니다. 저도 40대 중반의 나이인데 번듯한 직업이 아니고 몸이 좋지도 않고 결혼도 못하니 사람을 만나기 싫더군요. 또한 익명으로 자신의 표현에 책임을 지지 않는 글일 답글로 올라오는 경우가 많아 내 자신의 의견을 말하는게 종종 귀찮을때가 있습니다.  마지막에 희망을 주셔서 감사하네요. 젊은 세대들이 결혼하지 않고 출산하지 않는 것이 길을 찾고 의견을 말하는 것일 수 있겠다는 생각이 듭니다. 좋은 영상 고마워요 마크!
외국인의 입장에서 본 한국을 정말 정확하게 표현했다. 급성장했지만 재대로 구체적인 시스템까지 성장하지못해 내부적으로 더욱더 세밀한 성장이 필요한게 아닐까 생각한다  전쟁을 겪었지만 나라를 살리고자 노력한 분들에게 감사함을 느낀다
Korea is amazing...lived there for a year many years ago- some unbelievable and resilient people, and in my experience, some of the kindest people. I hope this helps open the dialogue for everyone ...thanks, Mark!
South Korea is too competitive wouldn’t want to live in such society
As a korean who will soon turn 19, this video almost made me cry. It is true we suffer and are worried about us and what the future will hold, but the reason why I couldn't give up and kept myself together was that slight hope that I never told anyone that things will get better if I try better, if I try to become that generation to lead the way to a much more acceptable happiness.  As always I was thinking about leaving the country because of the lack of space and acceptance my generation gets, but again I also wish to stay where I laughed, cried and was born.  I believe that we will get through this.
The guy just showed us the Inside of South. K's mental struggle and reality in a 24 min video... With an... Ad break...a small food review and vlog😂... Loved the trip Mark can't wait for more. ❤
I am Brazilian, my wife is korean and by the exorbitant prices of the apartments, we live here in Korea with her parents. By the apartments prices and the working pace, Korea has got the lowest Birthrate in the world (0,70). This video is really important to raise awareness of this topic. We decided to start our lives here by the safety. But it is quite sad that children until teenagers don't play around, dont do any sports... when we leave the gym (9-10pm), the floor above is an academy (study support), they are all there until this time. I am 30, and I suffered depression in my childhood, and I have ADHD. When I mention it round here that I am going to the psychologist, and after therapy, they don't understand because it is quite unusual here. It concerns a lot the future here... we really hope that society changes. Korean people are so kind and nice. As they are so resilient and strong, I am sure they will overcome this situation well. They deserve more
This was a fantastic video.  Lol and definitely one of the best ad reads I've ever seen.
Born and raised, now nearing my 40s here in the peninsula, I feel like we are perhaps the most anxious & confused people in the world. The fact that those in younger generation nowadays are more aware of what's wrong with the country, I hope there still is a hope for a better future. We showed the world our economic success and now it's time for some self-care. Let us stay sane no matter what, dear fellow Koreans! Huge thanks to this video, Mark!
I really appreciate your so much effort to analyse the current states of Korean society. I, as a Korean living in Europe, have felt hard to explain the complex pros and cons of Korean society to friends in here. Even though I agree most of the points you made in this video, I was not able to organize how they are related. In that point, this you did amazing job to clarify the complex relation between factors and their results. Now this is one of my favorite video in youtube, and I'll recommend this video to anyone who are interested in the Korean society. Good job Mark again, and I am looking forward to see other videos! Cheers
Well done Mark. I've seen a lot of trash content on this platform recently and you're managing to pull all the right things off about modern content creation but still remain down to earth, human and very informative. I don't feel like I'm being sucked down into an abyss of stimulation with a veneer of fake nonsense. Very refreshing
I’ve watched a few videos about suicide in South Korea and this one is by far the most well-rounded and compassionate one I’ve seen. I’ve just subscribed!
As a Korean living abroad, I was almost crying at the end of this video. I express my gratitude for making videos that match my thoughts and for being able to spread them to many people through your influence. I hope that Korea will now become a healthy country, not just a rich country.
I am a 30-years old Korean living in Seoul. I lived in New Zealand and Australia in my childhood and came to Korea to study in a high school. The pressure on high school students is so immense and crazy. Probably many of the students taking Sooneung(Korean College Scholastic Ability Test/Korean University Entrance Exam) might have some traumatic memories. Even reaching my 30s, I still had a dream of the day that I screwed up my test. It really sucks. 😞
유교와 자본주의의 가장 나쁜 부분을 유지하면서, 둘의 가장 좋은 부분은 버린것 같다는 말이 너무 명확하고 정확한것 같네요.
This was a great read.  Thank you for putting this together.  Now I have a better understanding of the history and why the people are the way they are. I do hope the younger people can push for change and create a more healthier and a more balanced outlook on life.
This is so spot on. I'm grateful for the fact that, instead of just taking a nosedive, youwent deep inside one's culture and really tried to understand before you come up with a conclusion. For that I really appreciate the work you put in to make this video a possibility, and subbed for more quality contents like this.
Damnnnn, I read most of your books. Didn't know you were on YouTube!
한국은 절때 저런 불량영상에 빠지지 마십쇼 울나라가 근대발전에 힘써준 박정희각하와 보수정당새나라 어린이 덕분에 부자국가가되어 공산당과 대등한 서열에서 1등한국가입니다 우리나라가 공부를해야 내나라를 위해 살아야한다는 반공주입식 교육으로 우리는 드디어 행복과 자유를 얻은겁니다 나라를위해 월급도 헌납하는 애국시민만세
Acho que essa pressão ocorre na maioria dos países medianamente desenvolvidos.... No Brasil também é assim, especialmente entre a classe média e alta... Já os pobres (a maioria) é mais relaxado nesse sentido
 @guglilmovicario  한국청년들은 일자리가 넘쳐나서 수많은 월급도 받으며 웃음과 행복에 넘쳐삽니다 우울국가는 빈민국에서만 해당상황이고 정치계 민주당이 나라를망하게한예
​ @가-h4v 문제점과 사실을 회피하고 모든 문제를 보수 진보로만 보기때문에 이미 한국은 썩을데로 썩은겁니다. 한국과 후손들에게 조금의 애정이라도 있다면 그냥 당신들끼리 이념전쟁이나 하세요~
 @kasi-ns2hv  왜 부끄러워 사는지 전혀모르겠는데요 그리고 저외국인말한 선동영상에 한국은 유교사상? ㅉㅉ 한국은 반공주입식 사상과 보수와 자유 민영화에 나라가 번뜻해지고 윤석열각하가덕분에 잘산다는걸 뼈저리 느겨야합니다
동감합니다 감사도 느끼고 있습니다 이 문제를 헤쳐나가야겠죠 정신적으로 성숙한 우리나라가 되고 싶네요
You’re happy man, I didn’t laugh, cry at the age (but was born).
I too will be turning 19 did year..the stress sure kicks in ..we'll get through it ..its alryt
Just keep going and pushing. You'll be ok! Anyone at 19, their life has not even fully blossomed yet and begun. You've got to dig deep and try to bloom where you are planted. I hope very much that your beautiful country and its people rise to the level of self-acceptance and inner happiness that you hope to see in your world. You seem to have a really good heart.
You are much stronger than you think! I wish you the best in life!
Why don't we raise "awareness" about the rampant murder and homelessness in Brazil, along with serious drug problems? Come on man, anyone can do a video of the things wrong with any country and make it look bad. On a world scale the truth is South Korea is one of the best places to live where it is safe and quality of living is a LOT better then most countries, including Brazil where poverty is very common.
 @Hqmptynpw  holy moly you're a ray of objective truth in all this subjective bs.
 @jerrygreen9985  I speak facts. Of all the countries in this world where there isn't even running water or proper sanitation, or where women can't even be seen in public without a hijab covering their heads (with severe consequences) or countries where there are constant ongoing wars and even America with all the school shooting, out of control crimes, rotting educational system, drug epidemics, etc, etc, and yet Mark Manson delusionally says, "South Korea is the most depressed place in the world."  I seriously question his intelligence and logic. And even more his authenticity and motive.
​ @Hqmptynpw  wtf are you saying? he's comment is just about the same topic as the video itself, in the video the autor mentioned the benefits of the south korea society a dozen times, but the focus is the MENTAL HEALTH problems that this society suffers from very young age, stop trying to distort the topic to shade away the problems that your country has and shame other's
 @denian17  My American friend, you're not understanding the gist of what I'm saying. When Mark Manson starts off and titles his video, "South Korea is the most depressive country in the world." It's so false and misleading, I'm not even sure where to begin with his ridiculous assumptions. What metrics & stats is he using to validate his ludicrous claims? My point being, if I put up a video talking about how terrible America is to live and then proceed to discuss all the homelessness, drug infested cities where used needles abound in local streets where children walk to school, where criminals run rampant without regards for the law (because corrupt politicians & radical DA's wont arrest them) school and mass public shootings on a monthly basis, a broken education system where kids in the inner cities graduate high school and can't read nor do elementary math, psychological issues far greater then any other nation, etc, etc....... I can really do a scathing portrayl of America and how it would "be the worst country to live in" and you would probably say to yourself, "Wow, that is going over board with some misleading narratives." And you would probably also say, "I guess this idiot hasn't lived in other countries where women can't even go out in public without a head covering (most of Middle East Muslim nations) or people don't even have clean running water immediately available (most African nations, India, Latin America) or super inflation where most people in Europe, even in wealthier countires like Germany, UK, France can't afford to eat meat on a consistent basis or have difficult times paying for their utility bills because it's so expensive, etc, etc.   Come on now, this is how negative stereotypes and generalizations that Westeners, especially American media & Hollywood have always done to put down, discredit and negatively stereotype Asian countries and Asians in general. I speak facts.
I agree the price of the houses is a factor that reduces the birth rate, but most of all, sexism is the main reason why women do not want to marry or give birth 😂😂
 @mesmerize5324  Why is Finland's birth rate low even though it is not a country with serious gender discrimination?
너무나 좋은 의견입니다. 당신의 말에 공감합니다. 정말 한국은 자본주의와 유교의 나쁜점만 배운것 같습니다. 그리고 아이들 교육문제나 학원등은 너무 정확합니다. 너무나 훌륭한 의견에 감사합니다. 당신 가정에 사랑을 보냅니다❤❤❤
 @Hqmptynpw  Im Brazilian and I wouldnt like living in South Korea tbh. For sure there is crime in Brazil homeless people, drugs etc, but to be honest I've never been robbed or something, and know many people who've never gone throught this things also. I live in a good neighborhood, have good quality of life and I'm not depressed because of working my ass off and then dying at 75 yo by suicide. What its the point of being a rich country if you cant provide happiness to your citizens? Life is about happiness. Having money is not important if you cant enjoy life.
Totally agree! There are so many trashy docs about Korea made by shitty lazy low-key racist narcissistic journalists or YouTubers, filled with ignorance, distortions, prejudice, and contents that end up becoming all about themselves at the end with zero research, and honestly when i clicked, I thought this was going to be another one of those that I'd stop before midway and click "don't recommend channel" but I'm so pleasantly surprised.  This was a very well researched and articulate doc with good analysis without prejudice.   Thank you so much for being such a good content creator!  He definitely deserves more love.
 @나-StarWars 수능 아니여도 잘 살 수 있는 사회가 되었으면 합니다. 요즘 학생들 의대 가려고 재수 삼수하면서 시간 보내고 있죠. 적성이 맞으면 모르겠지만 그냥 쫒아가는 사회.
 @나-StarWars  그렇게 쉽게 말씀하시는걸 보니 공감능력이 좀 떨어지시는 분인것 같습니다. 우선 왜 쳐야할까요? 더이상 보고싶지도 않습니다. 돈은 그냥 하늘에서 내려오나요? 돈이 아주 많은 동네의 부잣집이면 가능하겠죠, 재수든 n수든요. (그걸 한국인들이 그렇게 외쳐대는 의지의 문제라고 한다면 할말이 없네요) 저는 삶을 살아나가야하는 사람이기에, 거기에 들어가는 돈도 무시할수 없는 것 같습니다. 그리고 회사 생활을 위해서라면 더더욱 하고 싶지도 않구요, 한국에서는 회사생활을 더이상 하지 않을 생각이기 때문입니다. 그리고 저는 이제 석사마치고 박사를 고민하는 상황이라 더더욱 수능은 칠 생각이 없네요.
​ @martinocoreano  저도 동의합니다. 수능을 잘 쳐야지만 좋은 회사에 갈 수 있고 좋은 교수 밑에서 대학공부를 할 수 있는건 과연 맞는걸까? 라는 생각이 듭니다.   창의성이 너무나도 중요해지는 시대에 수능은 너무나도 구시대적인 시험 체계라고 생각합니다
 @나-StarWars  죄송한데 저에 대해서 무엇을 아신다고 이렇게 판단하고 댓글을 막달아 대시는건지 모르겠네요. 저에 대해서 여기다 전부적어놓은것도 아니기도 하구요. 적어주신 점은 참고하도록 하겠습니다. 적당히 해주시면 감사하겠습니다.
나는 애초에 시험도  안쳤는데  뭐 한국 고교생 이라고 다 수능에 목매고    공부가 전부인게 아님 나는 공장에서 일해 번돈으로 장사나 할까 생각했는데  아직도 공장에 일하지만 만족하면서 살고 있음
I also have the same kind of nightmare every once in a while
​ @나-StarWars 말로는 비관적인 사람을 싫어한다곤 하지만 철저히 폐쇄적이고 자기중심적인 관점으로 사람을 비관적으로 말하시며 훈계하시네요. 이런 게 바로 부정적인 에너지를 주변에 뿌리는 케이스죠. 선생님처럼 긍정적인 에너지를 통해 생산성을 증대하고 그로 인해 주변을 바꿀 수 있다고 생각하는 사람 중 하나로서, 선생님이야말로 가장 피하고 싶은 부정적인 사람입니다.
It will get better till one day you'll notice it's disappeared.
Yea bro that is really dystopian stuff . My grandfather had a saying - life is not what you make it but how you take it. I think there is much wisdom in that.
 @mikem9892 never heard it in that way thanks gonna remember that one
저도 이말에 정말 공감합니다. 유교와 자본주의에 가장 나쁜점만 갖고 있다는건 정확합니다. 이문제를 고치지 않으면 한국인은 전부 사라질겁니다. 너무나 정확한 분석에 감동을 받습니다.
근데 좀 모순인게, 한국은 정확히 말하면 유교의 좋은 점인 커뮤니티 중심 주의가 희박해지면서 점점 자본주의의 개인주의로 가고 있는데, 저자는 이건 자본주의의 좋은 점이라면서요? 개인적으로는개인주의가 진짜 좋은 점인지는 확신이 안가지만, 지금은 혼란기로 보여지네요. 전통 사상이란게 쉽게 바뀌지 않는데 뿌리는 아직 가족중심 문화가 남아있지만 표면적으로는 개인주의로 변하는...이게 서로 상충하고 스트레스를 불러오는 거 아닌가 싶어요. shame & judgement 에도 순기능이 있긴 합니다. 자신을 돌아보고 자기의 책임을 다하는 것, 요즘은 오히려 어려움이 닥치면 회피하고 도망가고 싶은 심리가 강해지는 문제도 있는거 같네요. 미국이라고 다 잘 사는것 아니죠. 멘탈 강하고 행복한거 아니구요. 거기도 알코올, 마약 중독, 정치적 대립, 빈부격차 등 여러 사회 문제 우리보다 더 심해요. 평균 수명도 거의 10년은 떨어집니다.   한국의 문제는 좁은 땅에 자원이 없는데에 있습니다. 오직 인간의 능력으로 외화 벌이 하다보니 경쟁이 치열 할 수 밖에요. 미국이나 호주, 브라질,  중국정도의 자원과 토지만 있어도 사람들 먹여 살리는데 큰 문제는 없으니까요. 당장 지금만 해도 반도체 산업 등 일부 글로벌 리딩 산업, 경쟁 국가에 뺏겨봐요. 뭐 먹고 살지?   물론 교육의 방향이 바뀌긴 해야 합니다. 상대평가 없애고 절대 평가로 아이들이 노력한 만큼 정당한 성취를 이루게 하고 객관식 보다는 토론식으로 좀 다양한 생각을 할 수 있게 하는 것, 어차피 애들 수도 줄어드는데 대학 서열에 대한 구조도 변해야 하구요.
​​​ @caidylan 사실 현재 한국의 유교 문화는 이상하게 변질된 것이 많습니다. 예를 들자면 차례(茶禮)문화가 있죠. 원래 차례는 돌아가신 부모님을 추모하기 위해 차를 간단하게 준비해 바치는 문화였지만, 북한의 침략으로 유교를 잘 알던 양반들(귀족층)이 몰락한 이후로 완전히 다른 문화로 변질 되어버렸습니다. 누가 더 좋고 많은 음식을 준비할 수 있는 부자인지 과시하고 경쟁하는 문화가 되었죠. 죽은 가족을 기억하고 추모하던 자리는 돈과 시간을 낭비하면서 다 먹지도 못할 양의 음식을 끊임 없이 만드는 자리가 된겁니다.
근데 저는 저게 마냥 한국만의 문제는 아니라 여겨지네요 유교랑 자본주의를 다 맛본 국가들의 문제로 보여짐
​​​ @caidylan  Well... to understand that, you need to learn and understand the history of Choson.  They did good work at first till Sarim came to power. They used it to secure their rank and power.  It's similar to how Stalin and Mao abused communism to his tastes.
Yaaay! Adrian is here 🙌 Haven't been to your channel for a long time now :/
​ @ChillGuy0 I'm somewhat confused by his comment.  Was it sarcasm? Who knows? I'm outta here!
I hope you’re being sarcastic. lol  I’ve been to Mumbai.
Thank you for making this. You are very bold in making this, and spot on! I can't agree more as a Korean.
What an amazing video. I have actually been to Korea last year and it is an amazing country. So good to see you zoom in on the "dark" side of this country. Really seems like being a country thats so awesome, kind and hard working comes at a price to the people living there. Love to Korea and you Mark!
You're killing it with these videos! Keep going, we love 'em.
I am a high school student who was born in Korea. Everyone here studies for 12 years from the first grade of elementary school to the third grade of high school. Most of them start earlier than that. These days, kindergarten-based private academies and kindergarten students prepare for medical schools before they think about the world they want to live in, because their parents don't know much about the world. I still think that the important thing for teenagers is their view of the world and their various experiences. However, the reality is different. You have to endure the pressure that you didn't even experience in the past, the desire to play, the exercise, etc. due to the set period of study. If you exercise, you also have to develop your physical strength to study. When you go to high school, you write down a portfolio like the first year and complete it for three years in high school, and then enter college based on the content and school grades. At this time, you have to write all the activities you do in school in relation to your career hope, and there is an academy that helps you write such a portfolio. Also, the cost of the academy is huge. I think such education in Korea will cause a wider gap between the rich and the poor. Most students these days don't think deeply about their career path and think that they should definitely go to college, and most of their friends who are good at studying want to pursue medicine. Jobs like doctors and dentists are expensive. Meanwhile, I thought I didn't know why I should go to college in my country. I'm still a teenager who hasn't had much experience, and I didn't think it was worth investing in because it would cost me a lot of money to decide on a department and go to college. Later, later than others, but when I had something I wanted to study for, I wanted to go to college. If I fail college at the age of 19, I will be treated as a failure. Even though I am a broken teenager, my dream is to travel around the world. But that means a lot of adults are interfering with other people's lives, such as how they will make money and need to have money to get married in the future. At first, I thought I would make the right mistake and others would get caught up in this world. I knew what I really wanted was to travel around the world, and I believed that I would be happy with the process even if I had a part-time job that wasn't a full-time job. However, it is really upsetting to find myself getting ingrained in this society. Success and failure are divided in teenagers, and if they don't get married on time, pressure from people around them will arise, and the heads of households will have to earn a certain amount of money, compete in new jobs again, and if they don't have children, I think it is natural that Korea has high suicide rates and depression levels. However, no one is trying to change. As a Korean, I want everyone to look back, not just ahead.
Thanks Mark. This new series is awesome. Lived the one about Portugal as well
As an educator in Korea for the last dozen years, I agree with this video. Korea excelled in economics because it needed to survive. Now it must tackle its social problems, inequalities, and depression-inducing educational and work methods if it wants to survive.
This is the most accurate documentary  about South Korea. As a Korean, I appreciate your belief that we will find a way. I too hope that we can overcome all the challenges facing people in this country 🙏
Awesome video.  This is my first time watching your content and I loved it as a Korean!
한국에서 항상 문제아였고 나도 내가 답도없는 반항아라고 굳게 믿다가 해외와서 깨달았다. 내가 지극히 정상이었다는걸 ㅋㅋ 그 끔찍한 시스템을 곧이곧대로 따를수있는 그들이 비정상이라는걸.. 머리 뒷통수 때려맞은 기분이었음
As a native Korean, i can confirm that he addressed Korean society really well. I always welcome foreign viewpoint of our culture because it promp me to reassess the culture i am living in. Thank you for the documentation :)
Brazil should be the next video! that article you wrote years ago about our culture is remembered till this day!
As an American adopted from Korea as a baby, I was not exposed to Korean culture at all. My adopted parents were successful, but didn’t have competitive personalities. There was no pressure for me to be the best, and family relationships were prioritized over work and money. Yet, my own perfectionist competitive mindset, the expectations I put on myself, and the shame I experience when I fall short of those expectations are so strong that I sometimes wonder if it’s possible for a culture/values/mindset to be so internalized through multiple generations that it can be passed on genetically, even to someone who has never been exposed to the culture, and raised in a very different culture
A travel show focusing on culture and mental health around the World would be an incredible series.
As a college student born and raised in Korea, most of my childhood memories revolve around fiercely competing in schools and academies. Even in university, I had to compete constantly to maintain a good GPA. When looking at objective indicators such as birth rates and suicide rates, it's evident that there are problems in our society. However, amidst the fear of starving to death or becoming victims of social shame, many find it difficult to speak up and find their own way to survive.  Although everyone is aware of these grim realities, it's true that opinions don't easily come together for societal improvement. Politicians, who should be at the forefront of change, often show little interest in opinions that don't translate into votes. In this sense, I'm deeply grateful for influential YouTubers like Mark to share his thoughts on our social issues. As a young Korean, I hope there is a future where more people in Korea could become happier and more acceptive to others.
Wow you did a really good job on analyzing Korean society. This was exactly how I felt about the Korean society after I moved back here from the U.S. in 10 years. I never got to experience the real side of this society, even though I was born in Korea and raised untill 15, but now I'm facing thoses societal issues daily at my workplace. I don't think there are analysis that will explain better than this video about the Korean society.  The younger generations who got a different education than my age are showing up as a change maker in the society, but the competitiveness is always there. There should be a systematically change in order to bring a real change in the society. Neverthless, I had a goosebumps by the end of the video when he talked about how considerate the Koreans are besides all of these issues in the society. Korea has so many good sides that no other countries can have and it's just so depressing that we Koreans can't fully enjoy it.
This video is truly GOLD!!! Thanks for shining light on the truth of Korea Mark.
As a MZ generation Korean living in Australia for 4 years now, this video is the most spot on I have ever watched so far. If someone asks me how it is in Korea, I will just share them a link to this video, it has a really good insight, absolutely better than the documentaries made by locals. in 24 minutes it covered so many details with right examples. Thank you for creating this video I don't know how you did it.  우리나라 젊은이들이 목소리를 올리게 되는 것은 국제적으로 이런 컨텐츠를 접하고 다른 나라는 어떻게 생활하는지 다각적인 삶과 관점을 알 수 있게 된 점이 크다고 생각합니다. 다들 젊은이들 일 안한다 딴지건다 하는데 계속 지금까지 해왔던 것들은 제한적이고 정답이 아닌것이 분명하며, 굳이 그 상태를 유지하고 싶다면 북한처럼 외국에서 들어오는 정보 차단하고 교육도 하란대로 할만큼만 시키던지요...? 고생해서 열심히 배워서 알거 다 아는 세대입니다. 사회의 발전보다 사람의 행복이 먼저입니다. 한국인 젊은분들 모두 본인이 행복한 인생에 집중하시고 항상 응원합니다.
For the first time, I did not skip the sponsored ad section... You are BRILLIANT at what you do, Mark! 😂
이 글을 읽고 나의 아들에게 나는 어떤 것들을 보여줄 것인지 깊이 생각해 봐야겠어요.
Your thoughts 💬 are very deep,, good luck bro,, I'm glad that i was born in India 😌
좋은 글입니다. 나도 당신나이에 그런 생각을 했습니다. 그러나 남들처럼 생활을 했고, 시간이 흘러서 내가 어른이 되고 괜찮은 직장을 다녔고 돈도 벌었지만 하나도 행복하지 않습니다. 어른들도 사실 잘 모릅니다. 그냥 규칙과 규율데로 살아가길 바랄뿐이죠. 모든 사람은 자신이 원하는 행복을 찾고, 지긋지긋한 경쟁을 싫어하는 사람은 그걸 벗어나서 행복을 찾아야해요. 한국은 지금 문제가 많은 시스템을 갖고있고 바껴야 합니다. 더욱더 최악의 국가로 가기전에 님같은 사람들이 자기의 목소리를 키우고, 그걸 지지하는 어른들이 늘어나면 좋겠습니다
You are validated for what you feel. As a gyopo Korean American it’s not as strict but we face the same issues of being “perfect.” Just know to always put yourself first before you help anyone else.
I am a 19 yr old too - I am not even halfway through what you're doing right now there. Yet things you say are so damn true. There is always another perspective everyone fails to see .. But seeing you navigate it, is just insane. Keep going, Self-love and Being compassionate towards yourself is important.  Dream higher and Chase your dream at any cost, you will be happy when it works wonders.❤😊
​ indiasuperclean6969 It's out of the blue, but if you really love your country, why not rethink these comments?
And despite all of these investments the education system here is SHIT
Dios mío, que deprimente. Estás joven, tienes salud, tienes a tus padres, deja de compararte con los demás y has lo que te guste, lo que te apasione, es tan triste leer que debes ser de tal forma para que alguien te ame, y no es así. Debes ser amado y validado porque sos vos, una persona irrepetible e irreemplazable. En el mundo hay tantas oportunidades, no todo gira en torno a las personas que vos ves en la escuela o en las universidades, no siempre tenés que ser el número 1 para sentirte feliz.
Perhaps it is a blessing that the birth rate is dropping.. ‘ might give opportunity for your generation to slow down and have better opportunity for employment and recreation?
 @newin548  I know that the birth rate is dropping here but Korea doesnt change.. N someone here  even don’t wanna have a baby bcuz of the stress that their baby will get..
I can sense the frustration and pressure you are feeling as a high school student in Korea. It is troubling to hear about the intense focus on academic achievement and the lack of emphasis on personal growth and exploration. It is important for young people to have the freedom to discover their passions and interests without feeling constrained by societal expectations.  It is admirable that you have a dream of traveling the world and finding happiness through experiences rather than material success. It is important to hold onto that dream and not let the pressures of society dictate your path. Remember that everyone's journey is unique and there is no one right way to live your life.  I hope that as you continue to navigate through your education and future decisions, you will find the courage to stay true to yourself and pursue what truly makes you happy. It may not be easy to go against the grain, but it is important to prioritize your own well-being and fulfillment above all else. Keep pushing forward and never lose sight of your dreams.
 @PoisonelleMisty4311  Thanks Your comments mean a lot to me and they make me feel brave🥹🥹
내가 캐나다 이민을 결정하게된 이유가 저런 점임..절대로 한국에서 애는 키우고 싶지 않음. 그리고 대부분의 이민자/유학생이 생각하는 한국은 그냥 일하다가 한달정도 돈쓰고 놀기 좋은 나라. 딱 그정도. 하지만 반대로 역이민 가시는 분들도 은근히 꽤 됨. 느림에서 오는 답답함에 삶의 질이 떨어진다고 판단되서. 특히나 의료쪽.
It is absolutely amazing that they need to be learning about it for 12 years honestly, l've still been in korea moreover born and raised in korea moreover, l'm just student too in addiction, l also wanna be telling them like the issues around us first of all, the suicide rate is getting higher than the other countries l guess because the most people who are just getting into in a competitive society plus, it costs really a lot after they had some of their babies in korea secondary, it is truly expensive to take care of their babies after the babies became to the teenagers, overall, it is getting worse and overwhelming them with those problems around them the most children who are just suffering with those problems for example, its like a competitive thing each other it is nearly impossible as they need to be getting overcoming it because which is just the only their lifestyles l think whereas the suicide rate is getting higher, the birth rate is just getting dropping to below down over and over again its not the baseline ever you know, l can sense that the korea is getting ruining by itself
The thing is stress and depression is all self-induced. So it's not the government or society that creates it. But it's one's own self-deprecating thoughts that induce it.
​ @RollerBladingSuxs  Man - you really can't see the toxicity in this kind of system can you?
 @RollerBladingSuxs some society’s have terrible stressors and thought processes that can contribute to your pressure. You don’t exist in a vacuum so Your society can cultivate harmful thought processes and expectations that you have to work through to fix
 @RollerBladingSuxs unless you are in a forest you will always be influenced and affected by the things around you, especially early childhood where you learn the most about what type of attitudes and ways you deal with life. Shame is a huge part of these societies
 @SirCruxful  Remember the saying no one is responsible for your life except you.
 @RollerBladingSuxs  you can say that as an individual but realize systemic things matter as well…. There’s that saying about 20% of your life is what you can control and that’s what matters and what you should focus on as an individual. But as a society why is it we can predict reliably so many outcomes just from where someone came from and how they were raised..
​ @RollerBladingSuxs Yeah, and when you and everyone else has self deprecating thoughts that act together, what is it? The human brain isnt just by itself. It's mostly by others. How you are is by what others are. You can blame yourself, but society is part of the problem.
 @eigelgregossweisse9563  You think Elon Musk made excuses living in South Africa which had far worse conditions than in S.Korea?
​​ @RollerBladingSuxs  Far worse conditions??!?!? Hahahahahh!!! you do realize bro was born rich? Right?!
​ @RollerBladingSuxs so no, you're definitely wrong. People react and mold to their environment, its in our psychology as humans. If society is built a certain way, most people are taught to adhere to that and if they don't they are shamed. American culture is different but every culture has its norms
 @RollerBladingSuxs  do you think Elon Musk is not stressed? Dude is one of the biggest business men in the world, of course he is. Stress comes from external factors otherwise it wouldn’t make sense to be stressed out over nothing. I’m sorry but you sound like you’ve never faced any great difficulty in your life, people face stress and depression but they learn to work regardless of it. No one chose to feel that way.
 @Ivib123  Before what he is right now. HE didn't let his circumstances and environment stop him from being successful. These individuals are solely blaming the government instead of being tough and finding a way to succecss.
​​ @RollerBladingSuxs yeah he looks like a happy chap Elon. Your first post already shows a complete lack of understanding and knowledge on the topic but your persistence and unwillingness to understand it is on par with Elons.
 @Jimmydeansandwiches  Not a single successful person ever said their circumstance or environment prevented them to achieve their success. But rather it helped their success. There's a reason why the saying goes " Got it out the mud".
 @RollerBladingSuxs  his parents were rich mine owners… mines they got the natives mining 😭😭 tough circumstances tho
 dellyspice  They didn't develop it with their own hands. If it wasn't for the Japanese and Americans. They wouldn't even be close to what they ar today.
뭔 개소리야  문제아는  그냥 문제아다 말도않되는것에  자기합리화하네 ㅋㅋ
정신과의사들이 하는말이 실제로 진단을 해보면 병원에 찾아오는사람이 정상이고 주변인들이 정상이 아닌경우가 훨 많았다고 하더라고요. 그 정상이 아닌 주변인들은 자기들이 아주 지극히 정상이라고 생각한답니다
 @원스타패밀리 초면에 사정조차 물어보지 않고 함부로 비수를 꽂아넣는 것도 말도 안 되는 짓입니다. 어떤 사연이 있을줄 아시고 가시돋친 말씀을 스스럼 없이 하시는지 안타깝습니다.
저도 한국에서는 늘 문제아 취급 당하다가 지금은 미국에서 제 개인 클리닉 열어서 잘 살고 있네요... 두 나라의 문화적 격차가 놀라울 정도로 큽니다
저는 스물 다섯에 나왔어요 ㅋ ㅈㅅ 직전까지 갔다가 다행히도 좋은 교수님이 정신과쌤을 소개해주셔서 빠져나왔네요. 한국에 더 있으면 미쳐버릴 것 같아서 유학박람회에서 알게된 미국의 저렴한 주립대로 왔는데 처음엔 제가 좋아하는게 뭔지 모를 정도로 남들이 보길 원하는 모습에만 맞춰 살았다는 사실에 충격받은 기억이 있네요. ㅋ
와 저도 평생을 제 스스로 한심하다고 여기면서 살았다가 캐나다에서 샤워하다가 갑자기 스스로 깨달았었는데 진짜 뒷통수맞은 기분이었음..ㅋㅋㅋ 같은 경험 신기하네요
​ @원스타패밀리 꼭 그렇지도 않음.당신같은 일부...아니 대다수의 한국인은 다양성을 인정하는 훈련이 필요함 당신의 정신건강과 이 사회를 위해서라도
 @HKimAustinTX 당신도 당신이 욕하는 그 한국인 범주에서 벗어나지 않는 것 같습니다. 한국인은 인터넷상에서 지나치게 공격적이고 무례하다.
Me living in central EU: i can't belive how much pressure already starting from childhood to go trough bc of a failed society. As exemple, Elementary school kids have 4-5hrs school per day.  I rather choose time for myself over other people's opinions / beeing judged for "failures". Got time for my own, pursue personal interests, meet people having fun instead of beeing a slave working 100hrs per week to be able to buy the newest gucci goods selling you on a 1.000% profit marge ^
Go to Philippines man, you need a change of perspective, this comment could mean nothing but there are lots of Korean families in the Philippines and their and children are happy. Many say it change their mindset about families, education and fun.
What good sides does korea have that no other country has?
I really think Korea took capitalism and competition to another level. Everyone is trying at 200 percent every day. In America, I know if I try my best, I could probably make it. In Korea, your average 12-year-old is already putting in 150 percent effort. It's amazing to see the growth of the nation but at the same time, really sad because your average Korean is highly educated highly capable but works at a cafe or stuck in the social class without any vertical headspace.
Very nice! VERY very nice~~ I love the fact that you got most of your research from conversations with locals instead of interpreting various statistics. Human and relatable. I'm touched!
This was a masterpiece of YouTube content. Please do more. Length, vibe, info, everything. Fantastic.
I lived in the United States until I was 9 years old and lived in Korea since. It was good to answer the questions that I felt vaguely when I first came to Korea. Korea is a very contradictory and strong attractive place. There are many problems with collectivism, but at the same time, the power to overcome is also strong. Even though I was young, it was a contraindication atmosphere to ask the question of the school's education, but now it has changed a lot. I will try to change more. Thank you for making this meaningful video!
Hello! I'm Brazilian and I watch K-Dramas. I've been enjoying learning about South Korean culture, which is why 'I came across' this video. In fact, the K-Dramas portray these dramas and now I understand the reasons a little better. Thank you for producing this content. I really enjoyed it. 😉
Loving the content, Mark! 💛 More of these videos, please.  I taught English for 2 years in South Korea at elementary school level - 7, 8, 9 and 10 year olds. The academic pressure is insane even at such a young age. I felt there are no moments for kids to be kids.
I live in Japan which has a lot of the same issues Korea has. I am half Japanese half Spanish though and I was brought up in Spain so I can't really speak Japanese well and I am regarded as a foreigner here, but let me tell you I am glad I was raised in Spain and I am actually also quite glad I am regarded as a foreigner here also. I feel like my Spanish environment really helped me be more relaxed in everything, the pace of living over there is just much more slow and relaxed, and my Spanish friends don't seem to be in a rush to build a successful career nor do they seem to care if they are behind or not, they are just doing their thing and that is also helping me come to terms that I don't need to rush my career and I don't need to rush my life.   Here in Japan I have spoken to plenty of Japanese natives who are even younger than me completely stressed out about being behind everyone else and on having to go through the entire system of graduating from university, get an internship and afterwards get a job. All done within specific time frames also, someone doing a sabbatical year is almost unheard of, and young Japanese people are even afraid to do this sabbatical year even if their mental health is telling them, dude you seriously need a break. Because they feel like they will be behind everyone else.  Being regarded as a foreigner here kinda makes it easier for me because I tend to surround myself with other foreigners and there are no expectations for me from part of Japanese society to do better, or to follow certain rules or standards, they are definitely more lenient on these kind of things for foreigners. Of course foreigners in Japan (especially those without the same privileges as me, who has a passport and doesn't have to worry about visas) deal with many other issues too. But at least there is not this pressure on us to perform better or to follow the "Japanese standard rules". Also, among us foreigners in Japan we are all just escaping in some sense and trying to make it abroad so we tend to have each other's back on our mental health. Korea seems to be a lot like Japan in a sense that the pressure, the societal standards and the amount of rules they need to follow just seem like it's too much for the young generation and that ends up literally killing them.
Thank you for showing both the beauty and the darkside of a culture, they are truly ressilient.
As somebody who's travelled to South Korea and is planning an exchange semester in Seoul, I got a similar verdict, a similar feeling; while at first it seems very shiny and perfect and then concerning and sometimes almost scary, over time, you cannot help but feel that they'll somehow manage to get over it. All koreans I've met so far have been some of the nicest and most fun people you could wish for and they all seemed to have a certain strength and will in them, to not give up, to see and value even the little joys of life. I don't know what the future holds and I'm curious on how my view will evolve after a longer time there, but I really wish for them to find their way as a country, to strike a balance that works for both economic success and a healthy, happy society.    also bro found the key to me actually watching the placement instead of skipping it, respect
한국에 살면서 느끼는 부분을 가장 명확히 짚어 말씀해주셨네요 너무 공감하지만 한국인으로써 이런 말을 꺼내기는 쉽지 않습니다. 무겁지만 꼭 한 번 쯤은 짚어봐야 할 주제를 다뤄주셔서 너무 감사하네요 모두들 알 권리가 있고 이젠 바뀌어야 된다라고 생각합니다.
Thanks so much for the video, it is now socially viral in Korea. I somehow burst into tears while watching this. All the best!
Good job, brilliant, it was the first time I couldn't skip the ad
A bitter smile and a bit warm tears came to my face as I recalled my middle and high school days when I would blame myself for not getting a perfect score. I praise your excellent insight. However, I believe that we will find a way, as you said at the end.
문제 진단부터 희망섞인 마무리까지....완벽하네요 저도 한국사회에서 지칠때가 있지만 늘 한가지의 위안이 있다면 우리가 마주해온 문제를 10년 뒤, 20년 뒤에는 좀 더 나아진 방향으로 변화된 사회가 될거라는 믿음이 있기때문이에요. 여태까지 그래왔듯이. 늘 대립되는 의견들로 싸우지만 언젠가는 적당한 선을 찾아가는게 한국인인 저도 신기할때가 있습니다. 요즘 약간 한국 전체가 우하향하고 있는 느낌이지만 ㅋㅋ
This is really good...solidly good...content. Thanks for taking the time to research, film, edit, and post this. Moral of this video: Pay attention in your stats classes so you know how to assess the data of the research you're reading!! (and so you can learn how easily data can be manipulated to dupe you)  Favorite line of this video: "I don't give a fuck" and how hard she had to stop and think to make sure she got the English expletive phrasing correct to convey her feelings accurately.
I'm 100% korean who has seen korea in the eyes of a half foreigner, and a korean. I've lived in America for 6 years, and for the rest of my life, I've lived in Korea.  I tend to think differently than my classmates. Maybe it's because I was raised in america.  I've been through depression and self harm as well before. Not a surprise.  Korea is safe, and it's comfortable. I'll admit it. No guns, no gender or sexuality wars. We have an amazing environment, a lot of things to learn and see, and a ton of culture and excitement.  Then, why do koreans get so easily depressed in korea? Is the country the problem?  It's mostly the socializing. Yes, the government and people around you pressuring to succeed and work are stressful as well. Very much. Studying is harx, and success is hard.  Yet, what makes it so hard are the people. They pressure you. Especially if your job is related to human interactions. They knock you down, they tackle you, they humiliate you.  The fact that you can stay anonymous on the internet does not help. There's a reason why I don't like to interact with koreans online. It's a total mess. Racism, perfectionists attacking you... It's not great. Although it's what makes korea so safe and uncontroversial, it's suffocating when it's a subject like race, feminism, or appearance.  A quick note on racism, I was literally just talking to my friend on the phone and two little boys started mocking me.. I'm korean though.. the kids in my class mock my pronouncation. Yet, foreigners say I don't even sound korean.  "People are rude here too." "Korea's social system isn't special. It's not a special problem." Go ahead and say that. Just understand that we are always pressured. We never feel free. Besides, the topic is korea, not your country😅  Thank you for reading.❤
It is good to see more and more people are realising what is happening in my country. The important thing is, make sure that you would not make the mistakes we did. Think carefully about 'what makes your life most meaningful'. Leave no one behind.
You are lucky to have grown up in Spain. I absolutely adore your tapas culture and had a lovely time in Barcelona. Quimet Y Quimet is my favorite tapas bar in the world.😊
Please girl we are so same. I also thought about the same thing, and like you, I am also a  foreigner raised in a different country. When I came here, depression really hit me. They are so fast paced that I can't catch up with them, and work ethics are super TOXIC. I love Japan, (especially their scenery, architecture, technology- which just shows how much pressure are placed unto them to have reach this far) and I don't want to come back to my country without being successful first, but the stress and pressure here, and how all my relationships are transactional, it's killing me. There are no happy relationships here, everything is transactional :<
I am older Japanese and you may nor believe me but Japanese society is more relaxed than 40-50 years ago. It is still very strict country following SK and China but people realized they have a choice.
Yea but Japan and Korea are two completely different countries with different cultural, societal and political dynamics…..I mean as a native Japanese, what you described sounds like a exaggerated version of what our grandparents went through in the 1960s or the 1970s lol 何か勘違いしていない？本当に日本に住んだ事ある？
​ @ausgod538 how do you know ? You living in south korea ?
What an interesting and excellent take. Perhaps make a YouTube video diving deeper into your points?
I think this comment can be misleading. Japan’s suicide rate has lowered dramatically over the past 10 years, and now it’s about the same as the average of European countries’. If you doubt it, please Google, you’ll be surprised. Compared to those kids in Korea, pressure from parents is much much less. Kids in school in Japan have those school lives you see in anime and Japanese movies. I also want to point out that Japanese media often shows bad manners and behaviours by foreigners on TV news and Japanese people are commenting that they should follow the local rules as long as they’re in Japan in an interview. Some even say they don’t want foreign visitors if they don’t follow the local rules. They’ve been accepting lots of workers mainly from Asia and there are obviously lots of issues that result from cultural differences.
Not a great fan of korea's problem is the same in japan  In korea, domestic industry is harsh because very limited huge companies can earn money in their country kick aside relatively small companies. (that causes excessive competition among their own to enter the limited Co's. that's the major problem.) but therefore, korea as a nation, really focused on exporting contents such as K-POP,K-DRAMA something like that ,you know, which are really fantastic quality unlike japanese traditonal drama.  on the other hand, japan's domestic industry has more room to think optimistic. there are savings which is built in 65-70's(which is called 'Izanagi economy') so, japan doesn't have to squeeze blood to earn money from foreign country compared to korea thanks to nowadays elder's. same as youngpeople doesn't have to do so.  then you said, japanese young people are under social pressure or stress from expectation by commonsense thing? not really think so.  maybe things have changed a bit compared to your sight of seeing.
Where I live in Australia the NT suicide rate is worser than Japan and not from being under pressure and expectations but from mostly trauma and abuse it's sad
Wow amazing country Spain. I hope to visit it soon. Greetings from Valencia (Spain)
 @sryibgtp5007 Visiting, staying in SKorea from 2009-2019 l experienced times of prosperity there, than with PM Park going down, the sinking of the SEWOL in 2014 a symbol of corruption, and mismanagement, the atmosphere went done rapidly, till PM Moon, who imprisoned this woman, and her accomplice. Now your new PM badly chosen in my regard, reverses back to corruption,and supporting the wrong businesses.
That Dystopia should scare the shit out of anyone. Chronic stress is horrendous. I feel sorry for the Koreans.
She even had subtitles to translate English to English we live in such a advanced time
​ @southcoastinventors6583  kinda stupid to put subtitles,  I would say  it’s a disrespect.
인식을 바꾸고 싶다고 주장하는 심리학자라는것들도 문제의 일부라는 것을 보여줍니다..  사람의 겉모습과 표면적인 요소에 초점을 맞추고 그걸 첨본사람 칭찬이라고 ㅉㅉ..
너무 한국적인 생각을 하면 안 됩니다.  한국적인 정서 = 지옥행
님에게서 사대주의가 더 느겨지는데...수치스럽다라....님 그럼 한국사회에서 매일 수치감을 느끼면서 살고계심...아님 지금 외국거주중.....강자는 옳다는 사대주의적 기준으로 문화적 잣대를 평가하는 인간들이 더 수치스러움..
이 덧글이 더 수치스럽다 단순히 서양인들은 선, 한국은 악   이런 색안경 잣대 끼고 영상을 보니까 안보이는 건데  서양인들 스몰토크에선 외모에 대해서 절대 얘기 안하고, 서양인들은 지성과 논리로만 대화하고 이런 줄 아냐   결국 어떤 나라가 선이냐 아니냐를 떠나서  정확하게 맞는 만큼만 평가해야지  저 정도면 무례한 외모 칭찬이나 비판도 아니지  미국 방송 제대로 본 적이나 있음?
아니 씹ㅋㅋㅋㅋ 저렇게 그냥 농담조로 말한건데 그걸 다 하나하나 신경쓰면서 어덯게 사세요?ㅋㅋㅋ 참 피곤하게 사네요 한국인들ㅋㅋㅋ 다른외국댓에서는 이런말 1도 없던데ㅋㅋㅋ
걍 농담으로 한 말인데 ㅋㅋㅋ;; 당사자도 뭐라 안 하는 걸 불편해하시네
No gender wars? Isn't the 4B movement growing like crazy in Korea? Isn't the rift between Korean men and women getting bigger?
 @tobithetabby6376  that's not the gender wars I'm talking about. And, not really. The men and woman problem.. It's been the same for years
Mark, as someone who has lived outside of the US for much of my life, I really appreciate your even-handedness and high regard for the Korean culture.  I'm sure your openness has done much for you personally, but sharing that openness with your viewers is also really valuable.  I really enjoyed the video, and look forward to seeing more.  Keep up the great work!
One of the best videos about Korea I've seen so far, providing in-depth insights straight from well-done research and locals, but articulated in such a concise and simple manner. The part about Korea only adopting the downsides of Confucianism and Capitalism was really eye-opening. Also, I'm really glad that you had a great time in Korea and loved the conclusion that you derived from history and observation - Korea's superpower is that Koreans will always find a way 👏
This is one of your best videos. I hope you'll do more like it. And I loved the ending, ha!
I am an Indian and find all of this true for India as well..India has embraced the worst aspects of western capitalism along with the collectivism of bringing shame to the family for various acts in life.
10:20 진짜 경악스럽다. 저런 사소한 예의조차 갖춰야한다는 의식이 없다는게 한국인 수준이지...젊은 세대는 '그나마' 낫지만 타인에 외모에 대해 언급하는 것 자체가 타인을 상품처럼 품평하는 거라는 것조차도 모르는 사람이 대부분인게🙂...
작가님의 탁월한 분석은 정확합니다. 한국인으로 태어나 한국에서  60년을 살았던 저는 이나이에 비로소 깨달았습니다. 내가 왜 그렇게 죽고 싶은 충동이 어린시절 부터 매순간 있게 되었는지를 말입니다. 작가님으ㅟ 탁월한 통찰과 설명에 감사드립니다.   그러나 ,  한반도라는 땅은 1.천연자원 없고  2. 강대국에 둘러싸여 있고  3.언제든 이땅의 사람들과 공동체와 민족과 국가는 망하거나 없어질 수 있는 상황에서 살아남아야 할 자원은 사람 밖에 없었습니다.  사람만이 자원이었고 사람만이 지켜낼 수 있었고 사람만이 해내야만 존재할 수 있었던 땅이 한반도였습니다.  지키고 싶었던 언어와 글자 말이 있었던 나라 지키고 싶었던 문화와 신화가 있었던 나라 지키고 싶었던  역사의 소중한 공통의 유산이 있었던 나라였기에  한반도에서는 자연스럽게 사람의 힘을 끌어내야만 했었습니다. 그게 바로 극도의 스트레스를 너머 보게 되는 더 극도의 식민지 상황이었습니다.  과거 중국, 몽골, 청나라의 끊임없는 침략으로  우리의 불쌍한 딸들이 "화냥년"이 되어 돌아왔던 비극  백년전 일본의 식민지 시절 겪게 되;었던 끔찍한 "성노예", "강제 징집< "강제 동원" 수탈, 학대, 학살, 인권ㄴ박탈 등을 다시 겪지 않으려면 지하자원도 없는 나라, 특별히 땅이 좋아 농산물도 많이 나지 못하는 나라(산이70프로) 이런 나라에서  다시는 역사적 비극을 되풀이 하지 않으려면 "사람이 힘이고 능력이고 전부"여야 했기에 사람의 능력을 극대화 시켜야만 했었습니다.  그런측면에서의 접근도 다음엔 시도 해주시기를 부탁 드립니다.
I liv ed in Korea for 17 years. When I left in 2019, I was the most depressed I had ever been. Mental health is NOT discussed. It is frowned upon to even talk about mental health.
This was great. I especially liked Nick's perspectives, which I thought on sharply on point and one of the best takes on the current situation I've seen recently. Also, as one of the other commenters mentioned, "the worst parts of confucianism and capitalism" does indeed hit on the essence of the problem. Interestingly, the new generation has begun to balk at the ideals of confucianism, which has exacerbated the intergenerational conflict with the older generation. In fact, this intergenerational conflict is one of many conflicts that is driving hate and preventing solutions to major societal problems. There are conflicts and hateful discourse not just based on age, but also based on gender, region in which one lives, socioeconomic class, political parties, etc.
This came out of nowhere, but I loved it, especially since South Korea is one of the countries I would love to travel extensively in the future.  Mark keeps on delivering. This is slowly becoming one of my favourite YouTube channels.
Long time fan of yours from the time you wrote "Models". Loved all your books and am so inspired and impressed with this video you made. The pressures and struggles of the young people of Korea really hit me and as a young Singaporean adult in Singapore, I fear that my own country is already on the way to some challenging times too.  How about a story about the "success" of Singapore? There is another side to the "success story" that people all over the world read about and I wish more people knew about the struggles that the people faced in our society.   Happy to host you if/when you are ever up for doing a story in Singapore!
This is my second video I’ve watched and you’ve earned your subscription many times over. Incredible quality of delivery, insightful comments and questions abound, and fantastic production quality. Safe to say I am thoroughly stoked to see more of your content. Keep it up man, this is why YouTube is the present, past, and future of content consumption.
Mark, my maaan, you are making mooneeey!! I tried to watch the whole video but the 50+ ads made it a pain in the ass. It was like 2 ads per minute of the video.😮‍💨😵‍💫
I'm chinese canadian, and my parents somewhat has the attitude of: "if you get your shit together, you won't be depressed". I was bullied in a canadian high school and at first my parents didn't want to acknowledge that. They realized I was developing a stutter and tried to ignore it. Now they have accepted it, but I feel like the damage was already done. I will spend many years trying to recover from the trauma and gain my confidence and my speech back.
What a good video, man. I've had several Korean friends throughout my life, so I've always been interested in their culture. This was really moving actually.
따뜻한 시선으로 바라봐주셔서 감사합니다.  마지막 말이 감동이네요. 적어도 우리 한국인들은 우리가 문제가 없다고 생각하고 지금의 현실에 눌러앉는 그런 사람들은 아닌 것 같습니다. 지금도 누구보다 스스로 문제를 자각하고 토론하고 더 나아지려고 하죠. 급성장의 비용을 치르는 만큼 지금 이렇게 앓는 시기는 필연적인 것 같습니다. 하지만 작가님 말대로 이 짧은 시기가 지나면 우리는 길을 찾겠죠. "After a brief time here, I believe they will find a way."
I f*ck*ng love your videos, Mark. I think they are top notch and this is one of my favorites.  Please make a similar about the happiest country in the world. I do hope this becomes a new series. All the best and keep it up.
Super awesome content! Interesting way to learn the problems and culture in different country. It'd be wonderful if we can check out more country through your lens, and if opportunity arises, I hope Malaysia is one of them.
I'm Pakistani and was thinking the same. I think we all Asians have the same code for life. I know Chinese are very similar, the same goes for Filipinos as well.
젊은사람들도 마찬가지예요ㅠ 어른들을 보고 배우는건데 어른들이 저러니 젊은사람들도 똑같아요… 첫만남에 누구닮앗다 외모평가 숨쉬듯 하는 한국..
@user-fd1ho4nr8l 39분 전(수정됨) 님에게서 사대주의가 더 느껴지는데...경악스럽다라....님 그럼 한국사회에서 매일  경악스러움을  느끼면서 살고계심...아님 지금 외국거주중.....강자는 옳다는 사대주의적 기준으로 문화적 표현법의 차이까지도 자신만이 옳다는  잣대를 들이대고 평가하는  인간들이 더 경악스러움.. 난 한국의 한 도시만한 크기의 지역에서 좀 비들이 돌아다니고 불법이라는 마  약이 눈앞에서 공공연하게 투약되는 지역을  통제조차 못하는 공권력과 총기사고로 인한 그 수많은 사망자들을 매일같이 뉴스로 접하면서도 로비라는 합법적 뇌물에 의해서 정치권력이 움직이지도 못하는 미국사회가 더.....경악을 넘어서서 끔찍한 무서움이 느껴지는데....  최소한 외모표현이 살인은 아니잖아...... 그리고 이영상의 화자가 말하는 본질은 문화적차이로 인한 사적인 외모표현을 쉽게하는 문제점을 말하는게 아니라 이젠 외모조차도 경쟁적으로 갖춰야하는 이 경쟁체제의 한국문제점을 살펴봐야 한다는 이야기 아닌가??  .... 강자는 옳다는  생각자체도  지나친 경쟁사회가 만든 잘못된 가치관인것을.....
강한 국가를 만들기 위해 국민을 갈아넣었네요. 내 새끼가 나처럼 갈리는건 원치 않기에 더이상 안낳는겁니다.
 @구관사랑  정말 공감입니다. 거기에 미세먼지, 북한, 나이 따지기 위계질서 최악의 직장 문화 등등 뭐하나 좋은게 없는데 왜 낳겠어요
I’ve been living here for 13th and wanna go out of this country so bad, but feel kind of trapped 😢
what made you stay 17 years if you were that depressed?
I also found it very hard to find happiness in Korea. The first day out of the country, and thereafter, I felt like I'd been dead for a long time and was only then becoming alive again. And, tragically, I think that's how a lot of people go through their entire lives.
Korea and Koreans are amazing, the first time I went, I started crying as the plane took off because I didn't want to leave lol. Go, and stay as long as you can, you won't regret it.
For anyone not in the know: This is basically if GugaFoods showed up in a video about problems in America, this dude is pretty famous for his insane meat related projects!
정말 죄송합니다. 그 행동은 예의에 어긋나고 부적절한 것이었던 것 같습니다. 저희가 존중하고 예의를 갖추는 모습을 보여드릴 수 있도록 노력하겠습니다. 다시 한번 사과의 말씀을 드립니다.
저도 보다가 진짜 너무 부끄러웠어요. 심리학자라는 분들이 저걸 아이스브레이킹이라고. 그러니 힘든 거예요. 한국 사회가...
한국 문화 기준에서 나쁜 행동은 아니었던 것 같습니다. 본 영상 제작자님은 한국 사회의 분위기를 보여주는 적절한 예시로 들고 싶으셨던 것 같아서 의도에 맞다고 봅니다. 부끄러운 사례로 보이는 것은 한국사람 입장에서 어쩔 수 없는 사실이지만 이 영상에서는 그것을 포함한 한국 사회 문제에 대해 진지하게 논의해보자는 취지가 있으니까요.
My first best friend in school was chinese; I am white. Unfortunately a lot of us are taught to be intolerant by our parents. I personally had to unlearn it. Chinese are very hard working peaceful people much like Koreans. My best friend in college was Korean. It is true that anyone can be bullied but as a parent I will not tolerate it. I will home school my son if I have to.
You got this man! ❤ I’m black, but my family also wasn't able to understand how depression was hurting me and wasn’t able to help with it. We just need to take it one step at a time. Wishing you luck and strength! Good luck in your recovery!
 @JYBRR  thank you man! good luck with your recover as well!
A lot of that is cultural. Confucianism and the imperial exam system have been seen as the only way to succeed for more than 2 millennia, so it's hard to change. So when confronted with a problem outside the sinosphere, like you faced, they just fall back on traditional wisdom - be a studious Confucian gentleman and your life will be miraculously fine, if not, you didn't do it well enough.  That's why China had to destroy Confucianism to progress. It's too toxic and holds back progress.
Try going to China and living there even if it's short term. I believe you will notice positive outcomes and improve in your self esteem. Wishing you the best. ❤
긴 역사의 기준으로 보면  그 a brief time 이 50년, 100년이 될수도 있죠.
변하긴하겠죠 어떻게? 현재의 한국사회를 이끄는 기득권 세대가 죽으면 변합니다. 가장 확실하고 느린 방법이죠.
 @justyoon51  기득권세대가 죽어도 기득권세대한테 사회문화를 전파받은 다음세대가 또 비슷하게 할껄요? 사회문화가 바뀔려면 너무나 오랜기간이 필요하다고 생각합니다. "이 짧은 시기가 지나면"? 꿈같은 얘기입니다
Excellent work. I lived there for years and LOVED it. Your video made me nostalgic.
Thanks Mark Manson - the video explains so well about South Korea - as a korean canadian i was so thrilled to watch this!! while helping young Korean students they always asked me why Korea has the highest suicide rate and I couldn't answer them before but your video just saved me
What an utterly indepthful analysis!  I come from vietnam. Raised in America so there was that expectational disconnect.  My mother simply expected me to be ingrained with the culture of financial acquisiveness first and foremost.  I never truly measured up to the level of hard work to ever earn a semblance of respect in her eyes so my childhood was a mix of buffoonery and disregard.  I my mother has earned a measure of financial success there is a disconnect to the generation that came before her and after her in the realm of familial piety.  She fled Vietnam before the war ended.  She imposed this point of Eastern expectation that an underling or child has no rights except to do what was imposed upon, and do it with a smile.  It's not a far stretch to say that my western value didn't serve me.  I'm 57 and just in the last few years have I come to terms with childhood, values and cultures.  I understood it in a misty, peripheral sort of way. I understood it but it wasn't concrete enough to put to words, to put things according to their weight.  It's so very insightful of you to deconstruct western vs. eastern values. You put it with specificity which ruled out everything else that wasn't that.  I thank you.  It's an enormous weight off my shoulders to put dimensions on the thing that I had been contending with.  Thank you Mark.  Betty ❤
This is a huge jump in craft for your channel. You always had good advice that was to the point, but this documentary style video takes that way further. Hope you’ll continue to explore topics like this in this style.
This was incredible. I think one of the best videos ive seen this year. Def will be rewatching this one.
Great video Mark and team. You truly went into it on a mission to understand and not apply your assumptions. I feel smarter. I love it when I read a book or watch a video and feel smarter after, that is a home run for me.
멋진 다큐네요. 이걸 다 보고 나서 들은 생각은 이 문제를 한국인들 스스로가 가장 잘 알고 있다는 거에요. 한국의 서점을 가보면 언제부턴가 자기치유와 돌아보는 성찰, 진정한 행복이나 가치에 대한 책들이 즐비합니다. 그런것들이 소비된다는 것이죠. 한국인은 옛부터 꾸준히 무언가에 계몽을 전하고 받는 민족인 것 같아요.
Thanks man, I’m a quarter Korean and I’ve always felt connected to that part of me, my mom and my grandmother who’s now passed, the culture is intelligent and the food is always good. Thanks. I feel for my distant kin.
a lot of Korean professor, politician and podcast were talking about your video. Finally here I am. it's crazy accurate analysis and Korea can't find a way to get through this problem. Am I depressed??
The situation is same here in India. We're constantly grinding at the cost of our lives.
I arrived in Korea in 2002 for the first time and stayed 6 years. Even in those days I had discussions like these and students would say "it's changing." I hope it will eventually change.
A video like this talking about my country Colombia would be very interesting because we are kind of the oposite case. Colombia for many years have been considerated the Happiest country of the world but it is full of problems, corruption and social disconfort. Preople suffers a lot here but in a different way and we get used to eat a lot of shit because we live in a cuntry were nothing actually works or gets done and even with that people is "happy". You said you lived some years in Latin America and what you said about this countries in your last podcast was very interesting.
Great video, Mark. Please make more like this one and the recent Portugal one. You do such a great job of getting deep into the topics that I always leave it well informed and educated on something new and important. Thanks!
your video came out at our biggest news broadcast(MBC) Thank you sir. very touching ending ...  my heart get warmed.
This is brilliant. You have beautifully put together what anyone who is acquainted with Korean culture cannot help but feel. The video is a perfectly structured and fun. Thanks for sharing. Korea is an incredible country full of intelligent, hardworking and charming people, but there are glaring problems in the make up of such society. I also agree wholeheartedly with your final statement: Koreans are strong and persistent. They will work it out in the end. I only hope it is sooner rather than later, so that less people suffer the burden of such pressure.
Very interesting take. As a Nigerian, it's curious that a lot of the social values mentioned here map across exactly but our results are so very different in both negative and positive aspects - we don't have ridiculous suicide rates but we also don't have the same quality of collective output. I think it would be very interesting to dig into what the differences are and why
I've just come back from 2 weeks in Taiwan and South Korea. We had an awesome tour guide in his late 20s take us on a day tour around Busan. He was on the grind from 7am til 8pm and went out of his way for us. I asked him how many days a week he was doing it and his answer still makes me sad - he was working 90 days straight (yes inclusive of weekends). Plus working for a boss and therefor not even being paid that well. They're built different over there, for better or worse? That said, unreal place to visit, loved it!!
Easily the most interesting and insightful documentary I've seen in 5 years. And I watch a LOT of documentaries.  Thanks Mark
I’m 33 years old Vietnamese female and moved to USA when I was 3 years old. I felt same way; a failure in my dad’s eyes. No matter what I did, I never really got a congratulations or good job. Multiple degrees later, much stress in a career I hate, I left and now pursuing to do something I enjoy much to my parent’s worry.   I feel their anxiety was projected onto me and that my dad too felt like a failure most of his life. He wanted to brag to others in Vietnam how well off we are. So it was social expectation.   But now I am living my own life. I  realized there’s many ways to live, you don’t have to follow the social expectations that previous generation placed on you. You have free will and can leave that behind and build a more loving healthier family and community. It’ll be easier if we can talk about these issues openly with each other and be more kind
Vietnam has many similarities as SK and Japan since they are all in Sinosphere countries (together with China,Taiwan and Hongkong), and share Confucius philosophy, VN and mainland China are just recently opened to capitalist/market economy, therefore things are only started heading to what South Korea and Japan facing now, but maybe less serious because of the mixture of socialism/capitalism/confucian in China and VN.
무슨 소리합니까 ㅋㅋㅋ 한국인들은 스스로가 문제점을 가장 잘 안다고? 한국 커뮤니티에서 한국의 문제점 지적하면 바로 욕부터 날아오는게 현실입니다.
자기계발서가 흥한다는건 그 나라의 시스템 문제를 직시하는게 아니고 개인의 문제로 돌린다는겁니다 근데 무슨 계몽이니 민족이니… 멀어도 한참 멀었네요
 @요조-s7t   보기 힘든 좋은 댓글이네요. 물질주의와 유교주의가 너무 많은 나쁜 요소들을 몰고 와서 토론을 못하고 근본적 국가 시스템을 바꿀 생각을 못하는게 가장 큰 문제죠. 토론을 못해면 좋은 방향으로 나아가지 못하고 국가 시스템이 가장 근본적인 요소이기 때문에 그걸 건들어야 하죠. 단적인 예로 한국의 국회의원은 막강한 쓸데 없는 권력과 엄청난 혜택이 주어지고 그들의 무능함과 국가에 가져오는 온갖 쓰레기 같은 행태에 대해서 국민은 큰 반응이 별로 없고 서로 싸우기만하거나 말씀하신데로 개인이 못나서라는 생각을 많이 합니다. 정말 문제입니다.
Hi, do you know you can get a visa to work and live in Korea b/c of your ancestry? I think it is a 2 year visa, then you can extend it indefinitely every 2 years.  I had many friends who did that, even if you are 1/8 Korean you can do it. peace.
Yeah, and with others life as well that people in your country scammed
 @Muhammad-HarDick  People in your country also scammed people. Of all countries. Therefore, you should feel ashamed of yourself.  Collectivistic thinking for the win.
 @exnihilonihilfit6316  dude, you don't even know what is my country 🤣 assuming people for the L
 @Muhammad-HarDick LOL. There that’s an Indian there for you. False Positive about how great his/her country. They have bought into current rhetoric of how advanced they are whereas most of them lack basic manners which shows clearly from above comment.
India isn't that bad for suicide rate compared to other countries it's actually around the same as Australia 12 - 13 per 100k people, south Korea is 25.2per 100k, Japan 17 - 18 per 100k, most suicidal country in the world Lesotho has suicide rate 87.5 per 100k more than 3x rate of suicide than south Korea, so i don't know why the guy says South Korea is the most suicidal country and not include the black African countries?
 @danielsonn3046  Apart from cities and big town, suicide deaths in India doesn't recorded. People don't invite police on every death that occurs in India unlike developed Countries. Hope you got it.
 @otakumonkey  ok got it I'm just going by recorded statistics as that's the only way to know
 @danielsonn3046  in countries like India where law and order is not perfect - records are a questionable source of data and not the best way to derive factual comparisons
Now 2024. It's not changing.   바뀌고 있지 않습니다. 바뀌질 않아요. 2024년 현재 바뀔 기미가 전혀 보이지 않아요. 오히려 더 공고해지고 있습니다. 아아 미친 나라 ㅜㅜ
the fact that you had to mention MBC is 'our biggest news broadcast' is showing lol
 @Modfet  showing what? that it got the biggest media coverage and therefore reached the most amount of people?
Teenagers like me have suicidal thoughts and even depression... Children who grow up like this are bound to become even more unhappy.
I gave a birth of my son in 2023 when Korea was suffering the lowest birthrate ever. First of all, I am very thankful to you for investigating the problems happening right now in my country. Normally, most korean women have to quit their jobs because people who work together in a company don't like the woman's maternity leave(it's not compulsory) and give pressure not to use a leave. Also, there's no workflexibility at all(9am to 6pm ). So, they have to send their child to a daycare center until age 7.  Children can stay in a daycare center from 7 am to 6 pm, so there might be no problem before graduating. The problem is when the kids enter into an elementary school. They finish at 1 pm when they are in 1st grade. So moms in korea are devastated because there's nobody to care for their kids. So they have to leave the company and give up their career. I think this can be another reason why Korea is the lowest  birthrate country.
극한 경쟁을 보고 싶으면 한국을 경험하세요. 그게 습관처럼 굳어지는 놀라운 경험을 하게됩니다. 그래서 한국인들이 외국인들을 보면 대부분 게으르다고 생각하게 됩니다. 이건 경쟁과 최고가 되어야 한다는 생활이 습관이 되었다고 보면 됩니다.  여기서 버티면 위너고 못 버티면 루저가 됩니다. 이게 한국입니다.
I believe you should also do a similar video about India on the matter of increasing rates of depression and anxiety, because from what I've seen, in India the anxiety is a mixture of show-off like it comes from the western culture, and intense confucinism like from South Korean culture. It'd be a fun experience for the views too.
Thanks for a wonderful video Mark and fellow producer team. Enjoyed the thought provoking dialogue and concepts of confucianism, materialism, social health i.e. relationships, financial stress and health outside of work. In my time living there people walk more than in western countries, 20% of plastic surgery globally takes place in Seoul and garlic consumption is higher than most other countries via kimchi and other foods. Outside of Seoul one will see agriculture in the towns and villages, as all the ingredients are grown for kimchi and made by families. It's interesting to see the natural seasons as the crops are grown. In my opinion there is a bias that working outside of Seoul is viewed as a failure (10million of 52 million), but people in Seosan were much happier non-verbally with a sense of community walking around the town lake (all ages) - daily. Wonderful people however cell phone addiction was noticeable, hence an isolation factor.  I loved S. Korea and am thankful for the experience.
This is the best video I have watched from you Mark. The music, editing, content... everything is perfect. Thanks a lot for all your publications, your newsletter, the books, the podcast. You have supported a lot of people. Thank youu very much!
I live in Indonesia and many Koreans surround me due to their work, and I also have a Korean brother-in-law. This video really reflects how competitive Koreans are. I have a 6-year-old son and he has few Korean classmates, I can tell how competitive Korean parents are, and what surprises me is those Korean expats can backstab each other while they are living abroad (which I thought you should be supportive of each other while living in another country.) They have to show how good their kids are, and it seems like they push their kids to be the best and take pride out of it. I know many Asian parents also do the same, but knowing Koreans, they really take it to another level.
As a teenager in korea, this video gave me lots to think about. Yes, it is a fact that people constantly compare themselves to other people and have lots of mental problems. The shame and the anxiety make people feel like they are a loser, and since they are stressed out with these feelings, they find another way to solve it, by depreciating others, followed by loneliness and depression and hate amongest the community. But at the end of the video mentioning resilience and all the positive stuff we have, I felt that if we focused the positive traits then the negative we would figure out to live a happier life. Thanks for making this video Mark ❤
As a Korean who lives in canada, I think westerners are kidding themselves thinking western countries are far less depressed than Korea. Look at the addiction spread like wild fire among western society.  I personally think if western countries prohibited all this drug uses as strongly as Korea, their suicide rate would've  shot up like crazy. Yes, Korea is bad but any modernized capitalistic society is not that much better than Korea either. I still remember how shocked I was when I found out so many regular students and peopleI know are regular substance users. They call themselves recreational user but there's nothing recreational about drug use.  In Canada, weed is legal. If you have this large group of people that need to use substance on regular basis, that country is far from the happy country. Happy and satisfied people don't use substance. Koreans are honest about their feelings because it's considered ok to express their feelings in Korean culture. On the countrary, people freom western country tend to hide how they really feel and wear fake smile and pretend there's nothing wrong.
I'm very impressed this video as one of the South korean.🇰🇷 Many korean already know this problem, we hope to change it as soon as possible.🥲🥲 Thank you for making this video.🙏
Dr. Lee Seohyun is awesome! Intelligent and with a great line at the end. Made me laugh out loud!
Whenever I see our past history as a Korean, tears form in my eyes and I feel emotional. Thank you for making it well
Hi Mark! this content is fascinating. We hope you can visit the Philippines to do a documentation on the Filipinos mental health as well.
I am a Korean. Your video is very accurate. We worked hard to live, so we succeeded quickly, but there's a crack there. It's time to take care of the place.
One of the biggest issues in Korea is the tendency for parents to provide full support and direction for their children from birth until they enter the workforce. Perhaps one of the most shocking stories I've heard from a Korean friend exemplifies this. After being raised with such support, this friend, upon securing a job, asked their parents, "What should I do next?" This illustrates a profound lack of self-reliance, where individuals, even at the age of 30, may not know what they are good at or what they should pursue. In essence, many Koreans lack a sense of independence. Regrettably, based on my experiences, 7 out of 10 Korean friends find themselves in such a state of uncertainty. While it may be unpleasant, this underscores a persistent issue in Korean society and its current state
"Today, the country’s challenge has shifted. Koreans must look inward." This fucking hit home for me. This video explains the situation in the country better than most Koreans could, and that’s saying a lot coming from a Korean. Respect!
남의 나라를 이렇게 자세히 관찰해서 문제점을 지적해주시고 마지막엔 사랑한다며 좋은점도 보여주시다니... 너무 감사합니다 한국인 고등학생인데 제 친구들이 자살한다는 말을 입에 달고 살정도로 힘들어해서 제발 교육제도좀 좋게 바뀌어줬으면 좋겠네유...
you can do a research on this topic but substantial part of Korean mentality and culture comes from Tamil.  Koreans use well over thousand Tamil words as its own and the  caste system, pressure to do well academically & socially all comes from the Indian culture.  so yeah, in a strange way, I feel that India is headed the same direction as Korea.
 @mspsys  Yup, I feel so too, after watching the video, the same thought had occurred to me that india's headed in the same direction
Its the complete opposite of this video. Theyre happy because they have really low standards
Well pointed. It reminds me of the company name 'another brick' in the movie Parasite. People were just used as a brick on this remarkable economical growth South Korea had along after the war. And this fool ourselves to think the materialistic prosperity grants us happiness. That is why we cant stop this self-consuming neverending suicidal circle.
Beautiful 4K video/production. Thank you for the small insight into Korean culture.
When my children were young they went to a private school with lots of Korean children.  The parents were very kind to us but extremely strict with their children.  It was very normal and accepted for them to expect all A’s from their children and they would punish for a B.  I couldn’t understand since I just wanted my children to love learning and do their best.  When they didn’t do well we just sat down and solved the problem with them, finding another way to teach the concept.  No shame or punishment.  This video helped me understand those parents and sympathize even more for the children.  I hope they use their resilience and hard work to tackle this cultural issue and lower the incidence of depression, anxiety and suicide.
I love the combination of psychology + travel. We get to understand what makes people tick in different cultures and environments. I love cats too! ❤
Genius idea to eat spicy food when doing your ad read. The only one I didn’t skip, and I skip every single one of them on every video.
Not trying to plug but my book, The Art of Taking it Easy, which is all about managing stress, was translated into Korean and is on the market there. I've always wondered about how it would translate to the culture there, and after watching this video I think I may attempt to plan a trip there.
초등학생때부터 배우는 내용은 대학을 가기 위해 필요한 내신과 수능의 기초를 다지는게 맞다고 생각했는데 그게 끔찍한거라고? 너무 당연한거라고 생각했는데..
This is by far the best video you've made, keep moving on this golden line Mark, and as always, thank you!
As a Korean who lives in Canada now, I really appreciate your honest opinion about my country. I really do. Subscribed.
한국인이지만 분석이 정확하네요 한국 사회에 꼭 필요했던 영상이자 지적이 아니었을까 싶습니다 많은 사람들이 이 사실을 알고 있었지만 문제점을 들춰내고 꺼내보는 시간을 많이 가지지 않았던 것 같습니다 그런 상황에서 한국인을 대신해 한국의 여러 문제가 수면 위로 올라올 수 있게 해주셔서 감사합니다 덕분에 저도 돌아보게 됩니다
So thankful for this video. Hope they find inner peace and can live not survive🤞🏽
굉장히 공감을 하는 게, 저는 한국의 이런 나르시시스트 적인 면으로부터 도망쳐서 해외로 갔던 사람이에요. '개인'이라는 게 철저히 질식화되고, 또 나르시시스트 부모로부터 양육당하고 또한 나르시시스트적인 한국의 교육체계로부터 착취당하고, 이 사회가 지옥같았었고 해외로 나가 처음으로 숨통이 트이는 경험을 했습니다. 독성이 가득한 사람들로부터 드디어 벗어난 듯한 느낌이 들었고 그랬기에 나가서도 한국 사회 관련 포털 뉴스조차도 보지 않고 한동안 아예 한국말도 하지 않으며, 나 자신을 건강히 다시 찾는 경험을 했습니다. 나르시시스트는 전세계 어디에나 있지만 내가 돌파구로 선택한 곳은 에코이스트가 많은 코스모폴리탄이었기에 돌아보면 참 좋은 사람들로부터 많은 정신적 지지를 받고 태어나 처음으로 인간에게 적대감과 방어감을 느끼며 긴장하지 않은 채로 진정으로 교감하고 소통하는 경험을 해보면서 많이 회복하게 되었죠. 겨우 나 자신을 찾아낼 힘을 얻고서, 심리 치료와 대면을 위해서 돌아와있지만, 돌아와서도 한국 사회 안으로 안들어갑니다. 가능한 경계를 지킬 수 있는 프리랜서와 해외관련 무역사업을 하며 이곳에서 지내며 지켜본 결과,  이 사회는 나르시시스틱한 사회에요. 독성이 엄청난 거죠. 그리고 반드시 희생양이 필요한 사회이고.  저는 해외행을 통해서 그 희생양의 고리를 끊은 거고 그런 기회가 없었던 이들은 전세계 1위 자살률의 퍼센티지를 높이는 역할을 하며 이 사회의 독성에 녹아 사라졌을 겁니다.   전형적인 한국의 부모 중에 하나인 내 나르시시스트 부모는 여전히 호시탐탐 내 경계를 침범하려고 애쓰고 있으며, 내가 힘을 가져갈수록 불안해하며 아무렇지 않은 듯 그 주체성에 훼방을 놓는 일을 합니다. 내가 이들로부터 생존했던 과정들을 사실 공유하면서 다른 이들과 나누고 싶은 생각도 있으나, 사실상 한국의 나르시시스트 비율이 너무나 높고, 또한 한국 사회 자체가 이미 그 사회본질로서 건강할 수 없는 나르시시시트적 요소로 점철되어있다면 이 사회에 속하는 한 과연 회복이라는 게 있을까 싶어서, 아예 이곳을 버려야할지 버려야한다면 얼마나 더 단호하게 선을 긋고 버려야하는지는 여전히 고민하고 있습니다. 물론 현실적 문제를 위해 해외 영주권은 넣고 있지만, 정신적인 의미로서요.   내가 맞지도 않는, 해외에서 살아보며 이 사회가 얼마나 착취적인지를 분명히 알고 있음에도 이곳으로 돌아온 것은, 나에게 일어난 폭력과 악을 바로 보기 위함, 내가 왜 이 집단에서 희생양 역할을 몇번이나 맡으며 삶과 나 자신에 대한 의문과 증오를 가져야했는지 그 진실을 대면하기 위해서였습니다. 진실은, 엄청난 힘을 줍니다.   잡아먹는 사람과 잡아먹히는 사람, 과연 그 비율이 얼마나 될지 명확히 가늠은 안되지만 당신이 잡아먹히는 쪽이라면, 명확한 도출구를 반드시 마련해놓으시길 바랍니다. 만약 그게 아니라면 세계에서 가장 불행한 국가, 가장 많은 이들이 자살하는 국가에서 살며 자신이 인간으로서 누릴 삶의 질과 자기 자신에 대한 건강한 자존과 자긍심을 그 제물로서 내놓아야할 테니까요.  악을 절대로 과소평가하지 마세요. 선은 절대로 악을 알지 못합니다. 악이 가장 두려워하는 건 삶에 대한 진정한 행복과 건강한 기쁨, 그리고 자기 자신에 대한 명확한 인식과 자존, 그리고 실존입니다. 이렇게 개개인이 덩어리지어져서 그 경계도 구분도 없이 한없이 서로 침범당하고 착취당하는, 이런 곳은 지옥입니다. 그리고 이 지옥이 불행과 빈곤 속에서 단기간에 드라마틱한 경제성장을 이룬 동력은,  바로 경계조차 없었기에 한없이 개개인을 착취할 수 있었던 바로 그 점에 있습니다.   외국어로는 번역도 되지 않는 효라는 사상을 등에 업고, 그 무엇을 해도 용서받고 용인되는 강력한 부모 권력을 손에 쥔, 한국의 무수한 나르시시트 부모들, 그들로부터 평생을 착취당하며 결국은 전세계에서 1,2위로 노동을 많이 하는 노동자로서 효율적 자원으로서 사회로 생산되어지는 한국인들, 한국인들은 하드워킹하다고, 외국인들은 입을 모아 이야기하는 그 '근면성실'은 사실은 생존에 대한 공포와 불안 속에서 익숙해져온 경쟁 트레이닝이죠. . 그저 미친듯이 일을 해대는 한국인들을, 초과근무도 당연한듯 해대는 낮은 인권인식도 이 경쟁 트레이닝의 탁월한 결과물입니다.  당신들이 그토록 자랑스러워하는 '우리'나라는, 전세계에서 가장 자살로 많은 이들이 사라지고 있으며, 가장 높은 노동강도로 낮은 노동인권을 갖고 있고, 가장 낮은 출산율을 갖고 있습니다. 게다가 나르시시스스트 비율도 다른 나라보다 2-3배가량 높습니다. 중국과 한국의 나르 비율이 너무나 높아서, 한족 관련 유전자 검사까지 진행했을 정도였죠. 그러나 애초에 그렇게 보지 않아도 이곳이 나르시시스트 천국이라는 건 한국인들의 문화인 "오지랖";에서 알 수 있습니다. 나르가 드러내는 가장 강력한 신호가 바로 경계침범이죠. 너와 내가 남인가요, '우리'인 거죠. 경계를 침범하는 이들에게 개인적인 질문은 삼가해주세요, 라고 요청하면 ' 세상 너 혼자만 사냐 ' 하면서 내 정보를 캐내고 그것을 가치판단하며 내 자존감과 수치심에 영향력을 미치고자 합니다. 그들이 가지지 못한 것을 내가 갖고 있는 것을 알았을 때에는( 특히 여러 외국 생활로 구사하는 외국어들 )  겉으로는 대단하다고 해도 조금만 거리를 좁히면 비난과 힐난이 시작되죠. 사실은 마음 깊이, 너는 뭐가 잘나서 남과 다르게 살려고 하냐? 라는 경멸과 적대가 있음을 압니다. 자기들은 유년기의 교육을 통해 색깔 하나 개성 하나 본인 의견하나, 게다가 남과 다른 경험도 다를 것 없이 남들보다 뒤쳐지지 않기 위해서만을 애쓰며, 오로지 스테레오 타입대로만 걸어왔는데, 그렇게 아무 색도 경험도 도전도 없이 오로지 사회적 생존만을 위해 살며 철저히 표백화된 자신과 다르게 자신의 의지로 무언가를 선택해서 자신만의 특색을 가진 이들에 대한 그들의 시기와 질투도 압니다.  이 사회에서 희생양이 될 이들은 언제나 안타깝습니다. 나는 그 생존자이지만, 아예 해외로 정신적인 이주를 하지 않고서 이 회복이 가능할지는 미지수라서요. 사회 전체가 나르시시스트적인데, 이 사회에서 도망쳐봤자 어디로 갈 수 있겠나요. 단호히 모든 걸 다 끊어내지 않는 한.  그래도 한국의 그 높은 자살률 수치에 속해있을 이들이 어떤 종류의 희생양들일지 알 것 같아서, 그 점은 항상 마음이 아픕니다.
정신건강에 대한 인식이 좋아지고 있지만 아직 쉽게 터놓고 이야기 할 수 있는 분위기가 되진 않은 것 같아요...... 팔이 다치면 정형외과에 가는 것처럼, 정신과 마음이 아프면 정신과, 심리상담소에 가는 게 당연해지는 사회가 왔으면 좋겠네요!
Amazing video. This is the reason we are on a mission to make a difference. Thank you so much Mark. You definitely started this snowball of awareness for change, and it will just get bigger.
I always thought South Korea had all the problems of Japan but on steroids. And I think part of the reason Japan isn’t as bad anymore is because they’ve been on the world stage for longer. Whereas Korea is a new kid on the block relatively. Maybe a decade and a half at this point. Japan has been held up to outside scrutiny for at least 3 decades. And granted Japan still has its problems they haven’t gone away but they seem more self aware about them than Korea does.
It’s so interesting seeing the different aspects of a culture that is completely different to yours. I was born and raised in Australia. Where Korea stigmatises and suppresses depression and anxiety, it is almost worn as a badge of honour in some aspects of Australian/western society. This is a great example of the best thing about something is often always the worst too.
Great video. I'm a Korean born and raised here for 27 years. The problems mentioned are all acknowledged, but many people still think nothing will change anyways, including me. Population is shrinking, and the younger generations are feeling lost right now. We feel like we lost our representation in the political system of this country. But watching your video, I realized that I myself is still lingering to the hope that things might get better here.
I'm American and I spent most of my adult life so far living in Korea. This video was so well done and on point and made me cry at the end. You really hit the nail on the head. It's the resilience, always finding a way through a willingness to move fast and adapt to change.
I'm Mainland Chinese, and everything you said in this video about the work ethics, the social pressure, the fierce competition in education and the level of anxiety... everything is also true herein China, despite vastly different political and economic systems and different contemporary history paths. I guess there's something rooted in our Eastern Asian genes about diligence, conformity, social hierarchy and so on.
Hope he didn't show up to the country with No Reservation
I think while almost everyone like the idea of 'The art of taking it easy', it's not a luxury that we/they cannot afford. I guess the same could be said for other countries as well in today's economy, but the truth is koreans (or rather older generations) overworking themselves is what helped Korea's economy the way it is. Meaning; overworking is quite literally saved them from poverty (aftermath of wars/colonization from japan), and that mindset just happened to carry over to this day. It doesn't help that South Korea relies heavily on other countries financially (trade/export) so they always need to be on their toes. It's why many koreans want N.Korea and S.Korea to unite, because the north has a lot of natural resources which  will allow us some freedom from being too dependent.
저도 해외에 사는 사람으로서 너무 공감이 됩니다. 한국사회에 정말 안맞는 사람이었는데도 저도 모르게 그런 독성적인 부분에 물들어있었다는걸 해외에 살면서 스스로 자각하게 되었는데 , 그런 부분들을 제 자신으로부터 분리해내는데에도 시간이 좀 걸리더라고요. 환경이라는게 참 무섭습니다. 경험하시고 깨닫게 되신 내용들을 다른 한국 사람들과 나누어주시길 바라요. 변화를 원하고 치유에 목마른 사람들에게 너무나 값진 메시지가 될 겁니다.
저도 같은이유로 도망치듯 계획도없이 무작정 해외나와서 어찌저찌 결혼하고 거주중인데 정말정말정말 공감입니다.. 겨우겨우 나자신이라는게 있구나 찾아내고 제2의인생을 살아가고있어요 ㅋㅋ 저도 프리랜싱이에요 제가 순수하게 좋아하는일을 열정적으로 하고있어요
⁠​⁠ @H_0735  제가 마주해야했던 핵심적인 폐해를 충분히 느꼈기에 사실 그 부분도 생각해보았으나 문제는 한국 사회가 그 자체로 나르시시스틱하다는 점이에요. 근본적으로 이 사회 안에서는 도망칠 곳은 없다는 거죠. 이곳의 정서에 속해있는 한, 삶의 질이나 삶에 대한 기쁨 혹은 자신에 대한 자긍이나 뒤틀리지 않은 자존은 일부 제물로서 내놓아야만 합니다. 정확히는 저들이 자신들에게도 ego가 있음을 깨닫는다는 전제하에요. 그러나 ego를 깨닫는 단계조차도 가지 못할 겁니다. 한국이 타자들에게 그렇게 이상적이고 가혹한 잣대를 들이밀며 끊임없이 판단을 하고 타자들의 경계를 침범하였음 건, 그들자체가 ego를 갖지 못한 것에 대한 무력감과 공허감 때문이니까요. ‘우리’에 덩어리져서 당신도 ‘우리’로 끌어들이고 우리로부터 벗어나는 것에 분노하고 막는 이유죠. 그리고 그 ‘우리’는 반드시 scapegoat, 희생양을 필요로 합니다. 오래 유지될 수 있는 집단은 아닙니다. 정신적 유산의 측면에선 서로가 서로를 잡아먹어서 자멸할 나라이고 민족이에요.
직장을 얻고나서 뭔가 심히 잘못됐단 느낌에 이 영상에 이 댓글까지 이끌려왔습니다. 잘 읽었어요
Japan has a  purer Asian heritage than Koreas who are of the distant mid eastern origins!
Thar's new though. Growing up in 70s-80s NZ, it was indeed shameful to have mental health problems. You were considered weak.
Tasteless and Mark, now there's a crossover I would not have predicted. Crazy how your worlds can collide. Edit: surprised there was no mention of the abysmal birth rates, that's gotta have a link to depression - both as a cause or outcome.
I’m a second generation Gen X Korean living in the US. I cried watching this segment. ❤
I truly enjoyed the video. What’s striking to me is in the entire 24-minute presentation, the “love” never came up—love for self; love for others, etc. It’s almost like some weird dream where millions of folks are chasing after what ultimately leads to emptiness. Love ❤
At first I wasn't going to watch this video because the title felt insulting without understanding. But after watching it, I think you did a nice job summing it up considering the different aspects of Korean society which has led them down this path. As a Korean American, I completely understand the pressures and stresses of Korean culture even though I grew up in the US. Korean parents raise their kids with the expectations of being #1 at everything. Korean parents are notorious for comparing their kids to kids in other families. This is one of the worse things you can do to your kid because it can make them feel insignificant and hopeless.  Despite this, Korean kids have honor and respect engraved in their heads, so they spend their entire lives trying to make their parents and society proud. But Korean parents are never satisfied. You're expected to keep grinding and striving to be the best. A never-ending sense of competition. This self-pressure that Korean people put on themselves is a big reason for the depression. And this depression leads to alcoholism, which then leads to deeper depression. It's a vicious cycle. The ending though gave me some hope... that the younger Korean generations are more open-minded and talking about issues in society.
You can feel the vibes there. At first when you arrive it’s glitzy and nice but after three days it’s wild. So depressing. Too many flashing lights
I lived in south korea for 2 years. 1 year in yungsan and 1 year in kunsan. Best thing that happened to me while I was in the army. 2010 feels so much closer than it actually is...I kinda want to go back...
As a South Korean student, this is a very eye-opening video. Confucianism is engraved in the older koreans' veins a lot more than foreign people think. Principles such as being together, respecting the elder and the higher positioned no matter how they are as a person, are present in not just companies and workplaces, but in families and schools as well. I was taught that these were etiquettes (Ex. Don't eat until the most elderly starts to eat) that apply to almost everywhere in South Korea. Also, constant competition seems to be an another problem that causes depression. I live in a region where academics is strongly emphasized by the environment. The biggest factor seems to be normal schools. Even when students have not thought about getting into good universities before, after seeing all these kids compare their scores with each other, talk about a CSAT math problem(in middle school), judging kids with academies they are attending, it's just really hard to ignore the feeling that you are behind everyone else, when you are really not. I also admit that I have thought that way when seeing kids who don't seem to be grinding as others seem to be. But a really harsh fact is that out of those grinding students, roughly 5-6% will get into universities that they are satisfied with. I am not saying that going to a lower-ranked university is a road to failure, but many korean students believe in that way. Students who are actually studying to reach their dreams are very few; others grind since they believe that going to a good university will guarantee them a good, stable life. That is why university of medicine is so popular here; doctors earn a lot of money, have a stable lifestyle, have social respect, and are able to work longer than most workers who are forced to retire at the age around 60. They feel depressed and worthless when they have worked so hard, but still fail to get accepted to a good university, which might lead to a long-term depression.  I can't really say anything about the Korean workplace since I am still a student, but I hope my fellow Koreans can overcome this deep cultural issue, young or old.
Thank you for doing this video. I’m Australian and I adore Korea and Koreans, I’ve been there twice in the last 12 months, I really didn’t want to leave and I hope to retire there in a decade. They are wonderful people and it hurts to much to see the way people suffer there for all the reasons you outlined. I really feel that the younger generation will make big changes and for this reason I am hopeful for Korea’s future.
Hey mark. I really love if  you to do a video on india like you do in korea. The suicide rate among students in india is also rising.
Thank you for your kind and thoughtful video. For those who want to understand this topic a little deeper, I would like to mention the book <한국인의 탄생>(The Birth of a Korean) by Hong Dae-sun, which was recently published in Korea.  In Korea, 70% of the country is mountainous and people had to live in a very harsh environment. It has four very distinct seasons, with very hot summers and very cold winters. So Koreans have always been hungry, not just during and after the Korean War, but for the thousands of years that Koreans have been on the Korean Peninsula. So they eat a huge variety of wild plants, they eat almost every part of the animal, they eat a huge variety of seaweed and seafood. They seem to believe that they can probably put almost anything in their mouth if it's organic. (Do you know what a "turtle hand" is?)  It's not just the geography, it's the political environment of having a huge other country, China, right next door that has made life difficult for Koreans for thousands of years. Westerners may not realize it, but South Korea has a completely different language and culture than China, and it shows in the fact that South Korea has managed to survive against China for thousands of years. Of course, it hasn't been easy. Every time China's dynasties changed, the new dynasty aimed to conquer the Korean Peninsula, sent many armies, and at times seemed to succeed, but in the end, all attempts failed. China and Korea eventually came to recognize each other's existence, albeit in a tributary relationship. However, the process left Koreans deeply stressed.  These two elements remain in the DNA of the Korean people. Due to the harshness of the environment, before the dawn of modern agriculture, Koreans went hungry and did whatever it took to survive. If you weren't hardworking, you weren't treated as a person. And the need to fight against the Chinese gave rise to a number of efficient strategies, which required the people to cooperate deeply. At least 100 or 1000 Chinese had to be exchanged for every Korean, so that Korea would not be destroyed.   If you met some Koreans in Korea who worked like crazy, to the point of death, and were never satisfied with themselves, that's perfectly normal, it's in their genes.   But I think that has to change with the times. Our system has reached its limits. Young Koreans are not having children anymore. I am married in Korea and have a stable income as a lawyer, but I have no intention of having children. For people who got married about 10 years earlier than me, there was a common perception that if you get married, you're going to have kids, but by the time I got married, that seemed to have diluted a little bit, and now I think it's become the default idea not to have kids. Even the number of people getting married has decreased.
As someone who has loved Korea, taught English to the very rich and poor, wrote product ads for prestigious companies and have had close, longterm relationships with several Koreans, I have to say that what you did here is spot on. I loved it. There is a darker side to what some of the elderly have to do to survive...although disturbing, I wish things like this would be brought out into the light as (hopefully) something might be done to fix this sad situation. Korea is in my heart, thoughts and prayers. I love this nation in a deep way.
Never thought I'd see someone cover my home country's problem. As someone who has effectively grown up in both the US, Australia, and Korea all the points in this video are 100% true Edit: I'm also a natural born Korean who's first language is Korean so I know the Korean side too well.
For decades, they worked hard and it paid off, because it is linear for a while. But once you hit the top, the rules for enriching yourself aren't about outworking anymore. It's more about being innovative, different, and different strategies.
We've become beyond depressed in various aspects of life here in Canada too. I hope everyone is well. Take care of your mental and physical health because I guarantee if you become disabled, you are automatically on the very bottom of the totem pole permanently unless you somehow are one of the rare lucky few to go into clinical remission (this, however, requires genuine healthcare, which is another terrifyingly sad situation we're experiencing currently given how the wealthy are trying to implement American privatization in that sector of public services.)
I read your book. Thank you Mark. Please make more content. 🎉🎉🎉
마지막 아돈깁어퍽이 킬링포인트임. 이걸 직접 보고 있는, 문제점을 느끼는 여러분은 한국이 당면한 문제에 사로잡혀살지 않으시길.
Now I am 21-year-old korean student. When I was in my third year of high school, I suffered from pressure and anxiety when I think about the past days for the CSAT. However, it was painful to know that my fate was reversed throughout the day. I studied very hard to go to a university in Seoul, but I cried for a month and wanted to die because I couldn't go to the university I wanted, let alone get the grades I wanted. Originally, I was supposed to enter a university at the age of 20, but I was preparing for the CSAT again, and I went to the academy from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. every day and ran 365 days without a break. However, when the grades I wanted did not do as well as I thought, I had despair and depression. Honestly, when I tried again, I thought I was a person who shouldn't do anything and thought of suicide. I still remember the day after I took the CSAT, and I was standing in the Han River for a long time thinking I was going to die. Korea is an academic society, so it competes fiercely to get a better university than others. There is still a high suicide rate among students for this reason. I still don't think this Korea education curriculum will be solved for the rest of my life.
I'm Korean living in an Europe. I could felt many things watching this documentary. Many thanks deeply. I got a say that we, Koreans SHOULD have done this JUST TO SURVIVE so far unfortunately. Nobody understands how our ancestors lived as a tiny country's people who suffered so many invasions, wars and even colonization by Japan. Nevertheless, Korean gets growing and gets great on our way. There's no country have no problem. I hope my country could get over these and get better no matter how.
A great music video. Loved the percussion. But was all the talking necessary?
​ @michaelduerr4553 this person is referring to the American commentator in the video, who goes by the handle "tasteless".
In such a short video one must oversimplify to an extent.
I felt the same. Almost skipped this video because of the clickbaity title, but I found the content incredibly nuanced, and the ending about the Korean people's resilience is something I've found to be true. Koreans have endured a lot throughout their ancient and modern histories, and I believe this time around they'll again figure out the much-needed steps toward a more hopeful and mentally healthy future.
I lived in Korea two different times in the same locations. Kunsan in 2009 and Yongsan in 2016. I would go back in a heartbeat.
​ @AverageBlackManJ why do you want to go back to those places? What's good about yongsan and the other place
I don't know (agree) about this DNA thing unless you mean it metaphorically, that is, figuratively. Anyway, what you highlight are the differences, the conflicts, etc, as is typical from the nationalistic propaganda point of view. There's us, and the rest of the world, and the victim card, etc. But the fact is that as Tokyo, Seoul and Beijing form a geographically compact axis comparable, for example, to London, Paris and Rome, or Berlin, what many fail to do, or even see, is to recognize the commonalities and shared characteristics. Those axes denote brother/cousin relationships, though one or the other culture is more deeply a "mother" (China in one case, Greco-Roman in the other). Hopefully someday (maybe BRICS will help) an Asian Union comparable to the integration in progress as the European Union, will become a reality. The question is, will the common currency be the BRICK (from BRICS) or some sort of Yuan/Yen/Won....YAN? 😉
same here.    down under and kor. how many years did you live in korea before moving.
Im curious but what are some differences in the cultures in the US vs Australia based on your personal experience?
No offense, but if you grew up in all those places, you're more than likely way wealthier and better off status wise than most people on the planet, so your anecdotes don't hold as much weight as someone who is what I would consider a REAL person, which is someone who grew up with not much material wise or social knowledge wise.
What did you notice the differences of people/ living are between all three countries ?
Very similar to the uk in terms of privatisation. I think the brutality of a global economy that values  profit over people is causing widespread disharmony. We need to redefine what life is rather than make it about maximising profits for big corporations.
Hi!! How are you right now ? It's heartbreaking for me to read this...everything heals with time...
I'm am indian also 21 years old, living in the world most populated country...I have given the medical entrance in india which have over 2 million registration. Out if this only 70k students admission in college 😢
 @shiya_marie  Hello! I have decided to try again for this year's CSAT. I know that India is also a country known for its fierce study. The fact that it is countless competitions because of its large population also.. I'm so sad😭
결혼하면 그 시절이 사무치게 그리울겁니다. 왜 내가 더 더더더 열심히 그 시간을 즐기지 못했을까 하는… 대학에 대한 압박감은 한국에서 수능 재수 삼수 편입까지 하면 모든 학생들의 고민인데 그 시절을 견디고 외국나오면 감사함을 갖게될거예요! 돈벌고 니가 알아서 살으라는 부모님 몇이나 되나요. 공부해서 편안한 삶을 살기 바라는게 부모님의 마음인건데 .. 현재 저는 유럽에서 아이를 키우는데 한국 교육 방식이 나쁘다고 생각하지 않습니다. 방목형으로 아이의 선택에 맡기면 황금 시간을 놓치고 결국 유럽도 대학 나온 잘난사람들이 좋은 직장 갖고 그 나머지 부류는 노동자 층으로 늙어서까지 월세살이 하다가 자식들한테 괄시 받고 왜 우리엄마는 나를 이렇게 키웠나 원망소리 하는건 사람사는곳 다 똑같아요…
 @Chanel_77-u6e  yess, you are right but our parents belong to those generation when internet was not there so there is a large generation gap between us.
 @shiya_marie  Korea does not have resources, so education is our resource. I know that Indian people also study a lot. I find it funny that this YouTuber describes the power of education as stress. The historical and cultural backgrounds of the United States and Korea are all different, so I think it would be foolish to conclude about Korea based on a short trip!  I lived in Europe and learned European languages ​​after becoming a mother. I think this is the spirit I learned through Korean education. I am 35years old but I love to study. Do whatever you want and enjoy your life🫶🏼
 @Chanel_77-u6e  yes education makes us aware that what's  going around us and to think logical about it.
I worked in two Korean companies here in the US and all I can say is.. yeah. Being watched all the time socially to be called out on if you make a mistake can drive people to suicide. Not having space to be different from others can drive you to hate yourself and every day you have to wake up into. It's so different from how we are raised in the US. But they're running on empty in Korea. You can't destroy individuals forever no matter how much success you gain, and I fear the holes may begin to show.
As a Korean born during the Korean war period, survived and have taken part in the changes of Korea for the past seventy years  ...  I am proud of what we have achieved. But I feel sorry for young Koreans, their depression, frustration, stress, etc..  We have to be changed and overcome current situation.. .We will overcome.
10:37 The fact that they’re shooting a video about how the whole nation is depressed due to every aspect of their life being a subject of competition, and the so-called mental health experts making a judgement on the guest’s appearance 🤦‍♀️
I've seen multiple videos about Korea's problems with depression, depopulation, etc. All of them gave me a sensation of sadness and hopelessness. However, your ending made me feel hope and gave me more perspective about the people's resilience. Thank you
이 영상을 보고 느낀 게 있네요. 한국인들이 타인의 시선을 많이 신경쓰는만큼 타인의 성공을 보며 노심초사하고 비교의식을 느끼며 실패감에도 잘 젖는 것 같은데… 타인들과 지나친 연결감을 가지는 데서 오는 행동 같다고 느꼈습니다. 저 역시도 그랬고요…  가족을 비롯한 타인을 나와 다른 존재로 분명히 인식하고 내 갈 길 가는 건강한 individualism이 필요해보여요.  좋은 영상 감사합니다. 한국인인 저도 반드시 길을 찾을 거라 믿어요.
I've lived in Korea for a long time, it's very simple, it's a very rigid society, that rigidity accounts for misery and high suicide rate. It's purely cultural.
I've been teaching English to a 55 year old Korean anesthesiologist for two years now. It's more therapy than English lessons, honestly.  Listening to her life stories leads me to believe that Korean society combines the most toxic elements of pre-industrial clannish bucket crab mentality and modern hypercapitalist meat grinder ladder climbing and status obsession.
Such a nice video. I have been to Korea,I have friends from Korea. I couldn't agree more with everything you say. Well done..
I'm a native Korean who was born in 1988. I played out a lot with my friends when i was a teenager and i traveled around 30 countries in 20s but at the same time i studied and worked hard too. Whatever we Koreans do, we just do our best, which is the national traits of Koreans
I’ve seen a couple of your other videos but this one got me to subscribe. This was excellent, I really enjoyed your work.
너우 우울한 나라 아직 시작일지 모릅니다 ㅠ 앞으로 이상태로 간다면 정신적으로 문제 생기시는 분들 정말 많아질듯 ㅠㅠㅠㅠㅠ
Great video ..lived there 15 years ago and came across the same interpretation of Korean culture. The collective mentality takes its toll on people. My students were under huge amounts of pressure.
참.. 정신과 의사란 사람도 초면에 외모평가나 하고 있고 참.. 이게 바로 여기서 다루는 한국의 문제중 하나네요..  한심하다 진짜. 외모평가할때 이분 어이없어하는 웃음.. 참 씁쓸하네요. 외모평가하고 본인 외모나 가꿀시간에  영어공부나 좀 하셔서 인터뷰는 좀 직접하시길
Thanks, super informative doc. What about the happiest nations in the world? Scandinavia/The Netherlands? What are they getting right?
In a typical country, the separation of power goes: -law-making,  -adjudication,  -execution In South Korea it goes: -Hyundai, -Samsung, -LG SK is a dystopian cyberpunk future that you can experience today.
외부에서 보는 시각은 종종 우리 사회의 이면을 명확히 비추어 주네요 그리고 마지막 개선할 수 있는 더 깊은 내면도 알려 주네요 잘 치유해야 할텐데요! 뜻 깊은 영상입니다
I enrolled in an online beginner Korean language class and the teacher is South Korean. He is pretty ok but he has a tendency to be sarcastic and put some of the students on the spot who can't understand on the get go what he is teaching. It's not a conducive atmosphere for learning, some of my classmates didn't even come back. I watch some Korean shows so I wasn't that shocked by what was going on. The teaching style is Confucian and he tries to make students compete against each other. I have questions but I end up looking for the answers on my own rather than have the unpleasant experience of being put on the spot for asking for clarification. Anyways, i just have 3 sessions left and I'll just finish them. Thank God I have a good sense of myself and am not a people pleaser otherwise i would have ended up depressed! I don't resent him, I am just accepting that he is like that cause that's how he grew up and that's what Korean society is like in general. I also found out that the reason why he gets all 5 stars on Google reviews is because he will give you a 30% discount for your next enrollment. He also has a very elementary grasp of the English language so it gets confusing sometimes since he starts rattling off in Korean. My goodness, it's a beginner Korean class he should know that his students might not understand what the hell he is saying even if it's a simple Korean sentence. Honestly, i feel like i got duped because of those google reviews. I'm still thinking if I'm going to leave an honest review on Google or chalk this up to experience and do my due diligence next time before spending my money. I don't want to end up hurting this guy even if he is abrasive and condescending.
This needs to be watched by all Koreans. Sadly many Koreans ignore this. They think lack of success and money are the reasons for the high suicide and low birth rate and worsen the situations further by working even harder
Really good and informative video. Hope that the view of mental health changes more quickly over there and glad that there has been some progress already.
Yes we will as we have done so many times before. Appreciate your generation’s efforts to rebuild our country.
This crazy mentality has helped Korea's gdp immensely but at the same time you're sacraficing your mental health and happiness
​ @Jj-ih7ou no, an anaesthesiologist is an MD who can administer general anaesthetics to patients undergoing major surgery. An anaesthetist is not an MD, and is only qualified to administer local anaesthetics to patients undergoing outpatient procedures.
I think they consider mental health equally as important as physical health
Напишіть відгук про цього вчителя - це допоможе іншим людям і цьому вчителю, маємо надію.
Write an honest review please. That's going to help a lot of other students. He sounds like a teacher to avoid.
 @NS-nc5go  I know but I'm so afraid he might end up getting depressed and hurting himself 😭 South Koreans act tough but they're actually so internally weak.
It’s not based on confucian at all. If you don’t understand far-east culture, don’t touch it just yet. TV series won’t help it that much.  What is it then? Militaristic. Spartan? Sure, maybe close.
Anyway, it’s not only in Korea, China and Japan have that problem too. Just ‘a little bit’ different 価値観 (价值观).  Don’t transform yourself into them.  Confucian meaning isn’t as shallow as in the video but even modern eastern asians don’t get the real meaning of it cause of modernization. They just dumped everything and moved into what so called western values except it is not exactly right name either.
I enrolled in a beginner level online Korean course too. I had trouble pronouncing certain letters. But she said that I had a “problem” with my tongue placement. She got so frustrated she wanted me to speak while holding my tongue down. I ended the class. The language is not worth all that drama. I’d like to see her try French see whether she has a “problem” or not. If I’m being generous - perhaps it’s her English
@mintytippy  I was fortunate to have a really nice Korean teacher. He was very kind and patient with all of us. Even when he got frustrated with us he remained clam and asked us to keep practicing. But yea, your teacher sounds very condescending and repulsive.
There should be more videos like this that portrait Korea with this level of objective pov. I'm a Korean who has led the very streotypical(and also successful) life here so far and after my short experience living in America recently (I'm in my mid-twenties) i just can't stop thinking i'd like to flee from this fuxxing country asap. Whenever i'm asked why from people, it was hard to elaborate the reasons why I came to be tremendously tired of my home country where people all around the world are rather praising, but now it feels like i found some clues to explain my anxiety and depression that stem from the huge cultural and societal gaps between two countries. This video explains a lot about dark side of South Korean culture and society, and i wish more people especially more Koreans could watch this and acknowledge this two-faced aspects of their country. All the points that this video has mentioned are the factors that keep destroying my mental health while i'm living here, and i see myself leaving this country in a few years. I hate being Korean as much as i love and embrace myself that has made by this society. Dealing with both hatred and affection towards one's home country at the same time is really difficult, but hope i will figure the way out soon. Thanks for a great video!
At some point, Koreans may have to learn not give a fuck about societal pressures, that would ease up a lot of stress and social expectations and live your life on your own behalf.
Beautiful, beautiful video!! Good job! I even cried a little😂❤ Absolutely loved it :) Thank you for looking into Korea with loving eyes and sharing it with all of us!
I am amazed that Mark could synthesize his insights into Korean society and the impact of history (particularly the 6/25 or Korean War) on our collective and individual narratives. As a Korean (albeit one who lives abroad), I am very proud of my heritage, my family's successes and struggles, and (most of all) our culture of resilience.   Like many Koreans in the comments, I have ambivalent feelings about the collateral damage of our economic, technological, and cultural success. One of my childhood friends lost his life to suicide and my cousins in Korea continue to struggle to find meaning and/or happiness in their daily lives. But despite these tribulations, I also believe that Korea is in a much better place than the US (where I currently live) to navigate these challenges because we have a shared framework of Confucian values that help us relate to one another and, generally speaking, be respectful of others while maintaining a social modesty that puts the collective ahead of our individualism. Confucianism certainly has its downsides (e.g., crushing conformity, and persistent patriarchy). Still, at least we have something that binds us and I believe that Koreans continue to maintain a faith that, in the worst of times, we will come together to solve our problems.   What concerns me is an erosion of this belief amidst wide(ning) economic inequality and the echo-chamber effects of the internet. Moreover, our declining birthrate likely necessitates reforms in our immigration system, along with changes in our cultural norms to facilitate a more heterogenous and inclusive society.   But we are an adaptable people, who combine k-pop with hip-hop, mix kimchi with tacos, and build class-leading products (e.g., electric cars, foldable phones), while maintaining a distinct identity and sense of self. Our national flower is the "mugunghwa," which is reputedly able to regrow and blossom despite being trampled or sown in difficult conditions.   I hope that we can be optimistic about our future, take better care of those who struggle, and be open to change.
As a Korean American with aspirations to return to the motherland, this is a very interesting and nuanced take.
Amazing video. I’ve spent time with several Koreans & have got into Korean drama & music over the past decade. What I admire the most in their culture is their work ethic & unwavering spirit. Thank you for acknowledging that. They’ve overcome a lot & that period of clawing their way to the top does have an effect both good & bad. Well balanced perspective.
I lived and worked in Korea, and recently came back to the EU. It was a good experience, but it made me appreciate things we take for granted in the EU much more, and amazing quality of life I have here. Still, this is not to say I do not like Korea and its people - on the contrary :)
Found this channel and it feels like I just found gold already.
한국사회를 굉장히 잘 이해하고 그를 바탕으로 훌륭하게 이야기를 풀어나간 것 같습니다. Mark Manson씨의 영상을 보고 한국인인 저조차 생각치 못한 한국의 정서적 문제와 그 이유에 대해 다시금 생각해보고 깨닫게 됩니다. 한국인도 배울 수 있는 한국에 대한 이야기 정말 감사합니다.
The fact that her dad is one year younger than Ed... I JUST CAN'T- 😭
TLC is desperate this episode is like 3 years old.. 😂
Ed is complaining about spending one night in uncomfortable conditions but he never showed any empathy for Rose living in these conditions every day.
I love how non embarrassed she is. Never be ashamed of where you come from
"...I have a skin condition where I can only sleep on 1,000 thread count or high sheet." - The most American thing ever said.
Rose was the most rational,  reasonable,   polite and respectful woman ever on this show. I feel angry that she got tangled up with a slug like Ed!
When your dad looks better than your bf… probably younger too
i know my girlfriend sleeps on a pad with a leaking roof but i need my 1000 thread sheets
I am so happy that Rose is doing well now with her Youtube channel and modeling. She deserves it after putting up with Ed.
That rat was so mangled and messed up. He was barely surviving. This episode is hilarious. Ed wouldn't have made it another night 😂
If spending a night a little sweaty and uncomfortable is your idea of “the worst night of your life” at 54 then you’ve had a pretty good, privileged life… just saying
“That’s a mouse or a rat?”  “I think so” 😂😂😂
I saw an update and the house in this video had renovations done and it’s a store now and her family still runs it
Rose doesn’t seem to mind her living conditions, like she said “this is my life my ordinary life” she seems content and happy she has her son, father, sister seems to be all she wants, Rose seemed more upset to have to leave them.
The dad just wants to laugh every time he sees ed lmao
Rose is pretty asf she must of DEEPLY wanted that green card cuz ain’t no way in hell🤦🏻‍♂️😂
As a Filipino, I can’t tell you how funny their expression is. The daughter and father couldn’t give less of a care about Ed. They’re just putting up a front for the camera and the money 😂😂😂
When ED asked the father “So do you like living in the Philippines?” Like WTF? 🤦🏽‍♂️
And he looks better than ed 😅😅😅 I may need to take a trip to the Philippines 😂
Are you serious? Imagine your daughter’s boyfriend is older than you.
Age gap relationships are the norm outside of America and Canada. I'm more shocked at this guys nonexistent neck.
And he looks a lot better than him despite living most of his life in abject poverty
Guaranteed that girl aint no virgin and take it from me families are not like that there is 100% acting
Not really desperate….they repost stuff for those of us that have never seen it 😂….it doesn’t matter how old it is ….its still good
Sounds like your mom when she forgot to swallow and looked down at her pregnancy test when she was pregnant with you.
Or they just want to post old episodes for people that want to watch it
And still ME and my friend laughed our asses off 😅😂😂😂
Well not everyone was watching 3 years ago like you were. I have never even seen or heard of this episode, don’t care to watch the series, so I appreciate being able to watch a clip off of YouTube like many others do!
And they knew how to get the views bc i never clicked so fast
firsf day on the internet?  Wait till she finds out about instant replay in live sports, she’s gonns lose her head
Because deep down inside, we all miss and want to see big ed. I mean he's like a teddy bear you just want to hold forever
​ @charlyb7231  Exactly wtf lmaoo TLC don't have shit to do with this post 😂
Ed and roses episode was the best one , I’m glad they reposting haven’t seen it since covid, so funny
Ed and rose got the best episode, I’m glad they reposting it, haven’t seen it since 2020 COVID
But it’s amazing! No desperation! Just letting ppl know, they got this gold mine footage!
More, wasn't Ed with Liz for 3 yrs, And then there's the Spanish speaking chickie in between Rose and Liz...
Ayy at least it’s post Covid times 😂😂🤷🏽‍♂️ Doesn’t make it that old
Omg okay good I came here to check because for a split second I was like no way Rose took him back
 @charlyb7231 You do know that 90 Day Fiancé is a TLC show right? So therefore TLC is the one behind the account 💀
And I’m going to watch it EVERY time I see it cause it’s soooo funny 🤣🤣🤣
You came here just to say that? Don’t you think ev1 who knows him knew about this also
The world wants big ed. How can some one not want him?
Tlc just advertising a series from 3 years ago and they will probably do it 10 years from now too❤😊😂❤
Sorry but it's not that hard to wash your walls for instance. Like imagine looking at those filthy walls everyday and thinking yeah, that's acceptable.
a damn about uncomfortable conditions, I would die happily if I'd be anywhere with love of my life
 @videochannel5707   Exactly, if I was with a woman as beautiful as Rose, then I wouldn't care about sleeping there.
@shreyasingh7506 Yes, you'd think the reality of the situation she's in would be enough to make him show empathy, but he's almost entirely concerned for himself and if he's a meal ticket. All while literally being an absolute creep going across the globe for a woman half his age.
She probably wanted to "show" him how hard she has it. These girls know what they're doing.
She doesn't know anything else. She was born into that so it's "normal" for her.
There’s people with mud houses cleaner than rose’s. I think she left it a tip to exaggerate her living conditions to tlc
To be fair she’s used to it where most Americans aren’t
 @mikesprigg5495 no point in washing it if the rain will just come all over it over again
shes use to it hes not as someone who has parents who grew up living the same conditions and  I have to as well for vacations its way different
 @imaan8647  Same. The rat scene!!! I hate Ed, but I would react the same way he did, u can't act like is normal to have a rat
I'm not a fan of Ed, but to be honest - I feel like Rose lacks empathy sometimes. She grew up in this environment so obviously she's used to it. But Ed isn't, and why she gotta look at him like an insect when he's uncomfortable. At least show some empathy !!
 @mikesprigg5495  True, but they have more important things to do, not to mention less disposable income, than to clean the walls
 @theparadigm8149  like sit on social media? Instead of spending literally 30 minutes washing the wall ?
​ @Pawniz yes she did. Are you crazy. Shes a grown woman. She doesn't gave to stay there. She can create a life somewhere else.
This thread legitimately shows the epitome of privileged America 😂 can not show empathy for anyone
All I see I someone playing with someone’s emotions for a green card
I’ve lived very closed to this kind of poverty and trust me, if they wanted to keep the house clean, they would. I know people who live worse and they keep their houses clean.
I wouldn't be surprised if that's not even her house. This is a TV show after all.
 @mikesprigg5495 your privilege is showing, the walls will get dirty every single day if not every hour bcuz of weather conditions, you’ve clearly never struggled to his extent before and it shows
 @canniba1vamp1re  nope you're wrong, I've been homeless, built a large shelter with recycled materials and kept it neat and tidy throughout the entirety of winter.
Don’t feel bad for people in those conditions. They did horrible things in past lives to earn this life. It’s not up to us to save them.
​ @mikesprigg5495  your absolutely correct poverty has nothing to do with being clean or keeping your house neat but flip side of the coin in the conditions that Rose showed what she lives in they have bigger fish to fry then the up keep of the home
 @ivanaguirre8641  ye like scrolling through social media flirting with some creep.
Yeah she is absolutely have no shame at all hahaha your gender is great @AnnieBrackett
He's a textbook narcissist. Which is why every woman leaves him or he inevitably destroys her mental health to the point of serious physical problems
I was use to sleeping a few times 3 years in a row in my mothers country she’s from El Salvador
Their genetics allows higher tolerances to heat and humidity whereas we are conditioned to colder temperatures and most Filipinos despise low temperatures and winter living, it’s rare to find a Filipino person on the Oregon High Desert where there’s nearly no humidity and temps can dip into the negative digits.
He wouldn't care if she lived in a sewer. He only worried about himself.
U can hear clearly say and make rose more comfortable. Calm down
 @mikesprigg5495  honestly comments like this show how close minded and out of touch some people are
 @alexaweisbarth3950  sorry to break the news to you buddy but people don't automatically become American as you choose.
I love Rose she's awesome Ed fck i dnt have the words they damn sure wldnt be nice he didmt deserve her thats for sure
If she wasn't embarrassed about where she came from why is she basically selling herself away to get out of where she came from?
When you're desperately using people to your advantage there's no such thing a being embarassed.
She was one of the most likable people on the show, I think. Didn’t put up with this man’s nonsense and knew she deserved better. Ed just assumed she would be so desperate to leave her situation that she would put up with any kind of mistreatment.
​@renemejias1842  there's a difference between not being embarrassed of where you came from vs trying to better your life and getting yourself out of poverty
​@renemejias1842 how is she a sell out she dumped him and stayed in her own country
There is nothing to be ashamed of where you come from. True will always come out. ❤
​ @renemejias1842  pity to those people who easily judge someone based on what they saw😂
She was hella nonchalant about the rat nd the rat just chillin like who’s this big ass dude?😂😂😂 9:54
 @michaeltwister you mean the country everyone gets is resources from?? If anything that’s a flex. Good try tho racist
Dude couldn’t they have ran a wet rag along the walls?? Fixed the leaky roof??? Lmao. How much is a mattress in the Philippines???
​ @michaeltwister like what? You mean what you've seen on TV. Bet you've never been to Africa but I'm sure you're just gonna lie that you've been there and stuff.😏😏
Yep, never forget what you are, the rest of the world will not, wear it like armor and it can never be used to hurt you.
2:17, I call bs, he has a condition that requires 1000 thread count on sheets! So does he bring those sheets to hotels too
​@priscilat.6974 true. Lot of us should remember to not be ashamed of our situation.
 @michaeltwister  Africa is literally one of the most riches continents.. what are you yapping about?
She doesn’t know to be embarrassed. She thinks this is normal. It IS normal for her. He tried to make her feel embarrassed because he’s a dick. But she didn’t go for it
She's definitely not ashamed of that. Most people living in the poor areas of the Philippines live this way, and its completely normal to them. They make the most out of living in this situation. I was born there and saw poverty. It humbles you so much when you grow up in America then visit back to see that. I love the Philippines 🇵🇭 ❤
 @renemejias1842  the answer is already there. But still there was no reason to be ashamed about being poor.
If the neckster was like some rich and famous good looking guy that mattered to her...she absolutely would be embarrassed. But it's Ed.
 @renemejias1842  wanting a better life and being ashamed of your culture is 2 completely different things. She primarily did it for her son, prince.
​@Shushu-jm8jx idk I don't watch these trash ass shows lol. 60 second clips is enough for me. I don't need the brain rot. It's all acting anyways. It's not real 😅
I think she was embarrassed of the sload, not her home.
I agree that she shouldn't be ashamed of where she's from but I also believe she should try to be more understanding of where he is from as well. He isn't used to being in these conditions and I think it was a whole lot worse than what he expected.
Actually that is very true for some people, nothing thats just "American", you sound pretty ignorant. I understand this as my uncle has eczema, and higher thread count has less friction and feels smooth enough not to irritate his skin. Which honestly many dermatologist reccomend to people with certain chronic skin conditions
 @tiffanybarnes8286  I bet your uncle would prepare for a trip to a third world country with the essentials he needs in order to not flare up his eczema.
​ @NinaBobina4006 Exactly. With all of Ed's stories and lies about his 5000 $ gifts I wonder if he ever sent any sheets, since packing them into your suitcase would be easier!
 @stillcantbesilencedevennow  Well considering that a LOT of Americans, myself included, descend from Europeans im not surprised. Its a melting pot.
I'm homeless and I can only sleep until the business arrives the next morning 🤥
 @SB-yc4ib the short answer is that it would cause less friction. meanwhile “lesser quality fabrics” can irritate the skin enough to cause eczema/dermatitis flare ups. it’s a recommendation dermatologists can give for clothes and mattresses if you have that skin condition.
His skin condition could well be diet related, he seems to have that honey monster thing going on
I have a skin condition down under where I can only go "Raw Dog" and pulling out is not an option because it means intimacy and without full contact/connection, puts my mental health in jeopardy.
Hey I have an eating disorder my Doctor has recommended for me to only eat filet, mignon and lobster 😅
@rodneybarnett3307 - For the past year, I’ve been meal prepping Filet Mignon with Broccoli and wild rice twice a week, as my dinner meal. Lobster just seems too complicated for me. For seafood, I opt for Salmon twice a week with Teriyaki Vegetables and Rice . . . Yummy!!!!
 @NinaBobina4006  Her uncle probably Don't even wanna go outside his own big bubble which is the United States.  Also the fact that she's calling us ignorant whilst being an American is brilliant.
 @piziskewl  It is. In fact, I'll know the foreigner is not an American because he or she actually researched the country they're going to before actually going there.
@zinc35yago Everything. Your skills are compared to that of a brick wall. I swear you won the Boston Tea Party, scared away the British bringing along intellect that was meant to be given to your people.
I think “first night of my life without air conditioning” would do it too
Polite? Gahh her side eyes still haunt me. She had noooo control of her facials.
no one going on this show is a great person lmao
 @astoldbycrozzie1525   ed and Angelina are almost just a like lol
Most filipinas are this way. I work in the north dakota oilfield. There are lots (LOTS) of guys out here married to filipinas.
Slug!!?? That's harsh but I like it!! It's underrated though.. Should have used the worst for this man.
i THINK during the family get together, i think ed actually said hes a year older then freddie so youre not wrong XD
I feel sorry for him warning to any woman that ends up permanently with this man they are not going to be happy he doesn't love himself he's very weird complains about everything no woman is going to be happy with this man my 60 years experience being around guys like this he won't make any Filipina in the Philippines happy especially in the United States he has no respect for women very disrespectful and forward not compassionate about saying things my first time in the Philippines instead of complaining if I was not comfortable I made sure she had a regular mattress to sleep on like a bunch of pedic gave her what I have instead of complaining and he probably makes more money than me any woman talking to this man looking to meet him is in big trouble he's no good he needs help he needs therapy
 @creampuffbaba  Which made Freddie I assume a 50-year-old grandpa. That's young.
I hadn’t laughed this hard in a looong time. I hadn’t seen Ed and Rose, and Ed visiting her in the Philippines 😂😂😂
Yes for someone who looks like that and complains about everything wrong in Rose's world. Weird!!
 @pauljordan4452  I can't think how  thread count would affect his dermatitis.
Man, when I heard him say that I thought what a goon!
The worst to me is the way he talked about it ON CAMERA it's so direspectful seriously
Ryt .... especially...not everyone is rich like him to afford even basic necessities but they are still trying their best to make him comfortable .....but this self entitled guy has never known what being poor feels like ......not to mention disrespecting their house on camera  ...which they worked so hard to make.......girl deserves so much better😢
 @pauljordan4452 man I do not care what he has. I’m not sympathetic with rose than Ed and Ed isn’t a real man and just deal with it complaining like a little child can’t handle tough situations like he needs to be humble and grateful
 @beautifulplaces2703 for real. like oooo you have eczema, you need to have these expensive ass sheets and that’s the only thing that can treat it”. I have eczema/dermatitis too and yeah it sucks, and yeah it can pop up out of nowhere, but never have i ever heard thread count as a thing to treat it. Just stop being a baby and get a bad rash for your trip, you can deal with it when you come. to not only look like the mucinex man but to have an even worse personality than him is quite the feat, Ed.
If he needs 1000 thread count sheets, wouldn’t he need 1000 thread count fabric for his clothes ?
 @reborngreatnesss5712  Quite true. Humility and gratitude are important - as is being emotionally tough. I happen to live with stroke.
i dislike both of them. rose is a gold digger. but yeah i agree with your comment this man is way too entitled
 @candy13x rose vega sum shi like that you’ll find it along the lines of that
Lmao BRUH THIS SHOW IS FAKE 🤣 it’s reality tv it’s not real buh calm tf down
 @taquitobandito6054 so? She’s modeling now and doing a lot better. That’s not fake.
Putting up with Ed lmao? Its not like she was forced to date him. Free will.
​ @intsfanatic She was giving him a chance and he showed his true self. Good on her for making a bad situation into a good thing for her son, her family and herself
​​ @rileycoyote8275  what's her true self then? Marrying any hobo as long as they can get her away from the poor lifestyle she was in? No one forced her to do all that. It was all her decision. Pretty sure the comments towards Ed wouldn't be as horrible if he was good looking and younger while still having the same personality traits
​ @harveyking5038 how can u say when she dumped him bruh stop being judgemental as if ur perfect 😂
How dare you! Ed stuck his neck out for her! She was ungrateful for putting her and her sons world on his shoulders. All he wanted was to use a great shampoo in a hotel like head & shoulders… 😎
 @roadkillz78  lol that was the joke bro. Lifted on his shoulders and the shampoo like head and shoulders? No?
​ @coldplayfan7357  you have clearly missed the point, didn't you ? She would rather cohabit with rats than living in luxury with just any disrespectful arse . She gave Ed a chance because " don't judge a book by it's cover " but turned out that the book was just as bad as its cover. Of course nobody forced her , that's why she left that dude within a week .
 @BlueprintWater How did he stick his neck out for her when he doesn’t have one?😁😁😁dude, you set yourself up with that comment 🤛🤟
I was looking for this comment, and you do not disappoint 😂
The rat was like bro  Get the F out here as fast as you can  This is a hell hole 🤣🤣🤣🤣☠️💀💀💀💀💀☠️  No species of living organisms should be living like this ☠️
​@mre053  I would have lost it..she said it was a mouse...that was no mouse😂😂
 @PhyliciaATL   If that’s a mouse 🐭  The electric work done in that “house” was done by a certified electrician ☠️
g this episode is so funny 😂😂😂 I don’t like we but I don’t think I can last more than a few minutes either.
I am over here screaming LMBO. That rat couldn't take no more lol. I thought it was dead lol. That thing needed help bad.😂😂😂😂😂
I first watched this episode for the first time when I was like 8 months pregnant, the whole episode is insane but when that rat popped up I swear I almost went into preterm labor I laughed so fuckin hard 😂😂😂
The rat looked more handsome than Big Ed despite it's health problems
😂😂yea I thought Mr rat was about to turn into master splinter 😂
It looked like a domesticated rat that had been drugged or something. That wasn't a feral rat.
When you said the rat I thought you meant Ed. Lol until I saw the rat 😂
Ed should be more worried about cobras seeking food and shelter from the downpour
Seriously 😂 I also think he saw himself in that pathetic rat and was repulsed 😅
i knew that i wil find some kind of this comment
I kinda feel bad for Ed but until now, he is clowning himself, showing his real colors and he's not really a good person....
Why does everyone think being "privileged" is a bad thing. Suffering is subjective. Everyone goes through different hardships. Just because someone doesn't experience what someone else does doesn't mean their feelings or suffering aren't valid.
he work to have that 'privileged' life, not like someone handed to him
​@theintrovertedaspie9095 that is the most privileged thing I've ever read. Shame on you, people die every day wishing for even just air conditioning
I'm pretty young. And although I've lived a good life I have to say there were days where I'd have to sleep with mosquitos, flies, bugs, cockroaches, insects, sweat, heat, no electricity all collectively on the cold floor. So yes, he lived a privileged life and although there's nothing wrong with it he needed to stop complaining.
He's so spoiled, it's crazy. His reaction to hearing thunder would be such a turn off if I was a woman. Actually everything they showed would be, lol.
 @billytringuyen1  True but that doesn’t mean he can’t try to empathize with Rose instead of just whine the whole night, it’s not like Rose was poor because she was lazy
 @theintrovertedaspie9095  Yes but calling it the worst night of your life is an exaggeration lmfao
 @SnailBob3348 What honestly would be worse?  This looked like living hell!  Heat, rain, dirty walls, chickens nearby, a rat, etc.  If that isn’t your worst night, what would a worse night look like?
 @theintrovertedaspie9095  Just bc your suffering is valid doesn't mean the privileges you've had are not problematic.  This guy Ed, calling an uncomfortable night the "worst time of his life" is a huge complaint.  He's lived such a privileged life to the point his fiance/gfs daily living conditions are a nightmare to him, which means they have a significant disconnect in their relationship with that.  That's the problem w/ privilege; it often leaves u UNABLE to relate to ppl and sometimes unable to sympathize w/ them bc you don't even want to get near the problem/issue (in this case: the poverty).  Instead of trying to bond and get to know her family, he just wants OUT ASAP.  So yeah, being privileged can be a negative thing in various ways and that does not mean that what you have suffered is not valid.
thats nice, Ed is soo worried for Rose being with him just for money but honestly...my friend got a wife from Philippines who lived in similar conditions, ofc my friend is 32 year old , tall and athletic young man nothing like Ed :D but he was very aware that this girl wanted a better life for herself and for her family, doesnt mean that she doesnt love him too , they have twins now and are happily married, girl lives and works in northern europe now , Ed never showed any respect to Rose or for her culture also he didnt have any empathy for Rose , ofc its hard for her too living in these conditions but she accepts it and doesnt cry like a baby
I would to and do when I see him on here lmao he’s probably like WTF IS THAT, and wtf is my daughter thinking !! Haha
 @camb400  we all know what she's thinking. Money and a green card in return for her dignity.
He's built like a projectile. I know I'm mean. I hope he doesn't read this comment.
no he deeply wanted someone to put up with this disusting trip
No, she deeply wanted to have another kid with him. She only left him when he admitted he wasn’t actually planning on having kids with her.
 @Hitome143  ako din! For sure he’s still laughing about it to this day.
He's the worst type of American, we have good ones though, but the bad ones make for great TV I must admit.
I swear 😂 I'm sure the showering with him was a powermove.  Her dad's probably laughing about it to this day
I love how he panics when the electricity goes out and she calms him down like he’s a scared baby.
I love how unapologetic she is about her home, i love heerrrrr😂
the dad seemed so sweet. i don’t know what i would’ve thought if i was him and watched my daughter date someone like ed. i’m glad that rose got out when she did, she seems to be doing really well now.
Him leaning against the wall after not sleeping all night..saying it broke him...😅 hilarious
The fact that rose is so calm and chill meanwhile Ed is freaking out😂😂😂
The way she looked at him with disgust! 😂😂😂 she hated him!!!! 😂😂😂
How did the camera crew hold it together when he was trying to feed the pigs friggin hilarious 😂😂😂
Ed: (Saw a mouse and asked) what is that? Rose: I think mouse.  Hahahahahahahahaha
I love the fact that rose is so chill and she doesn’t really care about anything
They’re taking a group shower and a speckled rat shows up twitching in the corner 😂😂 he’s like why’d y’all start without me 🤣🤣🤣🤣 I am FRIED rn bro this is killing me 😭
OMG. No matter how many times I watch the shower scene, can't stop laughing 😂😂😂😂😂😂
“Is that thunder?!”  Why does he not know how storms work?
No matter how many times I watch the scene with Ed in the shower with the rat, I still laugh EVERY TIME!!!😂😂😂😂
9:42   Poor Ralph the Rat  ------>>  He's not sleeping on the proper THREAD COUNT either  ‼
4:25 when the fan slowly stops spinning 😂 great.. great great great
This is comedy gold. Icing on the cake was "So Rose where does your dad live?" and the camera pans over to the pile of wooden pallets "Here. With pig."  Honorable mention to when Ed said he needs 1000 thread count sheets for his skin condition.
Maybe he was worried about open electrical connections and water 🤔
 @maypen-w4y  As if they don't have typhoons all the time. You'd think that's a non-issue by the time they're hosting a guest.
she could do a hell of ALOT better than this specimen/thing!!!!
Yep, a lesson in humility and what really matters. Ed thought he was better than she is. Pride comes before the fall
It’s normal for them it would suck for any of us let’s be real there is no ac rose was using Ed for money and wanted kids. Ed has money
​@kendallhughes7507  i 100% agree. But after going to Philippines, they don't care about looks like we do here. City girls care more about the looks but province girls don't.
`someone like Ed` exactly. I'm gonna be really really honest here but he should be beyond ecstatic that any woman even wanted to be with his pathetic self.
He probably knew the moment she was gonna get that green card his ass was gonna get dumped 💀
He has no masculine qualities whatsoever. Imagine how her dad felt.
 @HoreHey-zj9ht  dont lie now buddy. she broke up with him and she has a youtube channel thats doing amazing AND she is a model
Still she made love with him... How on earth God knows she tried taking such risk
Honestly though he is not that bad he is quite polite with the family. People are just being rude about him because of the neck thing.
​ @sohinibhattacharya4030  she didn't. He got her when she passed out drunk . See that scene after they woke up . Rose looked disgusted and annoyed .
Her face seeing him was like when ED saw the rat in the corner😂
 @GeorgiaAndrea  That might be a forgivable take if this video clip is all you know about Ed
hogs prolly panicked when they saw “big Ed” thinking there goes our feed 😮😮
I imagine having lived through Hell, nothing could probably get worse.
That's not good. The heavy rain brings the rats inside.  Then, the cobras and vipers follow the rats.
That is the saddest rat i've ever seen, she was like "a mouse"
I remember watching Michael meet Angela in Nigeria for the very first time. I was high asf and I was ROLLING!!!!!
Yoo I can’t stop everybody looking at like wtf but this shit is top shelf funny
 @DonaldMeyers-v8c  “Rose, you said you didn’t have electricity in here 😭”
America is only sending their finest and most educated romeos 😂
When u are pig butchering you can’t allow yourself to feel for the pig
I search this video when I need a little pick me up 😂😂
Omg I had tears running down my face Jesus haven’t laughed that hard for a long time 😂😂😂😂
We need to spread awareness about this. Millions of rats are suffering because they don't have bed sheets with a proper thread count
Ed never really considered her feelings. It was just “me, myself and I”
This is one of the funniest scenes. The rat could barely move😂
Who asks a girl he met online to do a std , buys her mouthwash , and then finds out she has a alcer, hes doin it again calling himself a meal ticket, so he paid for them to go on a romantic hoilday for a few days and he doesnt want her son to go which  if he had taken him , he would of got to know roses son.
Ed looks like the green mucous from the Mucinex commercial.  😊😊
I died when he said I dropped the soap while taking a shower with his father in law
This was one of the funniest episodes. When Ed saw that rat. I lost it. The way he peeked around the corner.
8:07,.....When Big Ed say's,... ''Cool''!,.....it absolutely, positively without a shadow of any doubt in this life and for all eternity,...was NOT cool.
They are the reason why I find this show so fascinating
That rat was the epitome of 'Skid Row for Rats", I lost a few tears 😢. 🐀😔
Omg that pig scene never fails to give me a good laugh 😂 Thank you tlc for reminding me!!
My man turns around like Michael Keaton in Batman, no neck mobility. 😮
How delusional can one be? He has no business being with that young lady. How repulsive he is. Wow.
The way he says “omg” when he sees the rat is just the cherry on top. That was the last thing he needed to see to just fly back home asap
It’s so crazy he said that whole thing about the thread count 💀 like million of millions of people in that country aren’t sleeping with a specific thread count and they’re fine
He will always lie and justify so he can keep creeping on kids his daughters age. If they weren't poor do you really think they would deal with this clown?? 😅
OMG taking Ed to that pig farm was a genius move, making him reunite with his pinky peers. Just what he needed after that terrible sleepless night.
I’m sorry but I think anyone of us would’ve been the same if we were suddenly sleeping with a leaking roof and showering with a dying rat. It is not circumstances he is used to and it’s ridiculous the amount of people blaming him for his reaction.
I'm sure you wouldn't like rats running around your house 😮
Even worse that he told her that "her breath is not pretty" on camera.
That was bad when he told her about her breath, what he should have done is just say ,I have a habit of gargling with this mouthwash before bed,that would have been Soo much kinder.
I can't stop laughing 🤣🤣🤣🤣 💀💀💀😭😭😭Thank you I really needed that 😂
Especially when rose was watering him down, its like she's trying to exterminate him!
😂😂 i cry when i google the cartoon and saw it look just like him
 @Steviekneecapz 🤣 I rode hard and wet I weigh 4 stone as a grown adult. 🐀😁 😂☔🇬🇧
That rat was the definition of "Down Bad" lmao that boi was down HORRENDOUS
Most ironic scene in the show.  The pigs were looking at him like 'how did that one get out?'
Mind you... atopic dermatitis is just basic ass eczema. He is so dramatic
​​ @saysikerightnow6300 He wants everyone to know that he's so delicate, super special and ultra sensitive lmao
 @saysikerightnow6300 yeah, i get eczema on my legs and I’ve never heard of the thread count sheets 😂 Just use lotion wtf
 @saysikerightnow6300  I didn't know people suffer eczema on their ass! I've had psoriasis though since 1997.
 @zeeblue1220  What kind of lotion do you use? Ones with oatmeal are effective.
Ever heard of a preference? What if people looked down on you for something you used for your own care
Bro has lived an easy life ...he doesn't know what being poor feels like ......no matter how their house is....they have worked hard to make it .....and disrespecting that ON camera is stupid😢!!
 @saysikerightnow6300 I was thinking same thing soooo many people have it . He had to say it all like that thinking people don’t know what it is
​ @DustinStich-h2i  the only special condition he has is , malignant narcissism . Even morbid obesity is basic in this age .
I can’t believe or understand how any person/woman could like him or find him attractive, it really makes me feel sick!
 @florence1395 these comments make me sick. The double standards are unreal. If Ed were a woman, everyone would be like "oh yes queen love yourself, don't change yourself for a man, body positivity bla bla bla"
I will forever love how hysterically rose is laughing when Ed is washing himself  She’s probably like “yeah take that bitch you a fool” 😂
Man him being sweaty with his head on the wall is legendary. This is the best big ed clip i love. He is so uncomfortable and i love it
Ed has no respect to rose and her family and home 😢
He has to turn his whole body to look left or right 😂
love how he says I am her meal ticket, of course you are look at her face when she looks at you.
I heard that Ed is now the official ambassador of Head and Shoulders in America?
dude if i was there in her home sitting against the wall hearing the thunder, let her go under my arm and listen to the weather, thats magic
2:19 omg 🙄🙄 I don't believe this dude. If he stays in hotel rooms, he would have to specially order those specific sheets every single time and I highly doubt that he does.
Rose 🌹 is a tripppppp!!!!!  😆  She definitely would make it as an actress/comedian here in America 🇺🇸.  Or anywhere…
Rose and Ed was the best series, 90 Day got so much more exposure thanks to them
damn dog you have money why didnt you take the whole family to a nice hotel 🥹😳🤣
She seems like a cold person, but last year whilst living in Makati, whilst walking ALL the way back from Taguig since my phone died, I bumped into her by a busy road. She was trying to get into a taxi, but she just stood there and let me pass, and she looked genuinely concerned that I looked really exhausted.
Ed had to turn his whole body to look at her dad. LOLL
I love how she’s just like “yea, no shit it’s leaking. Yea it’s gonna be okay- shut upppp it’s fine” like I love that
The name is ‘head and shoulders’ because he has no neck
Right?? I was just thinking the same thing. I love sleeping to the sounds of storms, he missed a good opportunity to hold her and listen to the storm together
So concerned that she offered you a ride in her taxi, eh? Define 'concerned' 🤔 Actions speak louder than words.
This is soo sad, i live in a really small apt, but i feel like im rich compared to what I'm seeing, god bless.
Ed is like a character from it's always sunny in Philadelphia.
It's funny how he's like I hope she's not trying to use me for my money 😂
The rat scene still gets me every time 😂 I love how unapologetic she is
The way that girl stood up for herself; up to today I admire that , happy she did that and happier her life seems that is way better now ❤
Mr. Mayonnaise..please. I have never heard of someone being allergic to a certain thread count sheets. For a little short sh*t, he sure was demanding and snoody. I have seen clips of this guy, and he went to the Phillipines expecting California. If he was such a desireable guy like he think he is, then he wouldn’t have to search another country for love. He was too old to be so immature…
Not 90 Day pulling out this episode for the millionth time. 😭
Ed: I’ve never shared a room with my girlfriend and her father  Me: he’s had other girlfriends ?! 😂
That dude turning his whole body to look around is HILARIOUS. He looks exactly like Ram-Man from the He-Man cartoon.
what's the thread count on his clothes?!?  lol ...1000 thread count my ass
that rat looked so diseased lmaoooo @ Ed's neck   so much in this video
The pigs were getting angry Ed kept dropping their feeding bowl😂😂
Very bad decision :( I've made some too. Life goes on.
It's the sacrifice she had to make for a better life😂
Well. Her family is really poor and she is a single mother living in SE-Asia. If Ed was from Philippines, i dont think she´d date him.
People do that. Nothing gross. Its a biological activity. Is there some kind of philosophy thats goes against sex?
honestly Rose can do a lot better. Ed is too controlling and he seems like he wants its his way all the time
9:45 thats master splinter looking for the 5th member of TMNT. "I finally found you ED"
Ed puts Mayo in his hair and yet hes judging Rose's family home and country, they may live like that but their hair is shining and beautiful  Rose you im so glad you finally realized that you can do better and told him to kicks rocks!!!
“A mouse , yah I think so “ 10:05  *laughs*😂 I like Rose
Am I the only one that got nervous at the 12:30 bit? For a moment, I thought that the father was gonna get pulled downhill by the weight of Ed's neck, instead 😭
It must be a really slow day at TLC‘s social media if all they have to pull out is really old episodes with that creepy loser Ed.
I laughed so hard. Not at Rose or her living conditions but at him. He deserved every bit of it. Older than that girl’s dad.
As a Costa Rican, we laugh so hard when Americans say “We’re in the jungle” 😂 so when Ed asked Roses dad if they were in the jungle, I couldn’t help but chuckle lol
What in the actual f#$%. This beautiful girl chooses the Penguin from Batman, because he has money???
14:20 at this precise moment, I mistook Ed for one of the pigs… 😂
One question: where’s his neck? Mr. Krabs has more neck than this dude.
long story short.   until i was 20 i showered with a small bucket like in the video while growing up in el salvador. i  moved to the states when i was 20. at 21 i joined the US Army. retired at 43 .  a year later i moved back home to el salvador. been here for 3 years. now that im back home  i shower with a smal bucket every day and loving it.
Rose is such a 💎 and I'm so happy her life changed for the better.
This is a 4 year old episode they’ve both moved on already
oh yeah. but still it kind of is disgusting how Ed treated her tbh.
Nah, these videos get more clicks than any other videos they put out. Even the haters like yourself can't help but click on it too. Thank you, you officially supported more big Ed videos!
​@zky10  maybe they barter instead of selling the 🐖.  In Mexico my grandparents had a small store and raised chickens and goats. So it was common for someone to give them turkeys, cows and even take them into town to do shopping. Over them taking a crowed bus. In exchange for an animal or $30 in groceries. Which is alot cheaper than going to an overpriced store. This was back in the 90s through early 2000s. They now live here in the 🇺🇸 and are citizens.
It’s only a few years old and who cares how old it is?
And children, that was actually a big part of the deal for her and when she found out he lied about wanting kids and got a vasectomy, she dumped him. But let's not act like he isn't with her cause she's hot & young, she's actually younger than his daughter
I like how he is scared that the roof will come down on both of them 😂😂😂😂
She is way too good for him.  She deserves so much better.
That has to be the world's oldest rat. That thing looked like it was going to croak any minute.
He really asked if that was a thunder 😭 like there's no thunders in america
If I was there I would of pissed on myself for laughing so hard
I just realized that he was taking a shower with socks on 😂😂😂
9:10 I like how they hose him down like a pig lmao >>>
Rose said her dad had suggested that he and Prince go with them on the trip. For Ed to spend time with Prince and   to watch him while Ed and Rose were spending time together.
Rose and Liz are so beautiful, why would they want to be with a little troll like him?!?!
It’s messed up that he’s complaining about sleeping there, yet he has no empathy or concern for her living conditions.
Ed's flip flops smell so bad they killed the oldest rat ever
14:12 .. "yeah, this was fun" 😂 city boy had the worst night+day of his life 😂😂
“I’ve never spent one night without air conditioning.” I died laughing. What a brat.
11:51 Did he really just say "pig parm" to match his accent? LOL
It’s a reality millions of people are living like that in every developing region.
They have since renovated into a bigger house if you have see rose vlogs.
her face when she says "I think a mouse" is great
Ed must use  only Heald and shoulders  because he has  no neck 😂😂😂😂😂
As of 2024, Elizabeth "Liz" Woods has confirmed that she is no longer with Big Ed Brown and is in a relationship with her new boyfriend, Jayson. 💖
It's so sad the black mold. I don't blame Ed for not wanting to stay there and breathe mold.
The way he kept falling and the way he got scared while showering 😂
“I have a skin condition called atopic dermatitis”……. Oh u mean eczema 😭🤣
I grew up in the DR, power went out at least 3 hrs a day sometimes half day of electricity. No fans, no water, no fridge just rain and silence. Its beautiful
She straight up called him "scared like a big baby" 😂😂 her house really isnt even that bad to be honest, he's trippin
Its definitely dead by now 😭 pretty sure it was dying when they showed it, bro could barely move
i thought he was in prison locked up because of his orange shirt
 @snowwhite19376  🤣well, to him it FELT like a prison, so basically yeah 💀
It wasn't even that for him though. He was complaining about the windows, the thunder, the rain, asking if there were flying roaches, complaining about the sheets, the power going out, sleeping on the floor, etcetera... It's like he expected people in a third world country to live in mansions.
Ed's neck was in the same place as his girlfriends AC unit.
Ed says to the DAD, do you like living in the Philippines? 🤣🤣🤣
Ed slipping in the pig farm was insane😂 I rewatched it 100 times maybe
I love how much rose is enjoying pouring cold water on ed
I would never treat her like that she’s deserves so ,much more!
Bro You Guys Cannot Say This Episode Wasn’t Funny 😭 Especially When He Saw The Mouse 😭
Love Ed, but damn he needed to grow a pair. So sensitive about Mosquitoes and water, says it’s the worst night of his life. Rose lived like that every day 🤦🏾‍♂️
Omfg man the pigs in those pins & those poor dogs too omg that is horrible!!
She seems so kind and down to earth, she would make a great wife and then she gets matched up with this guy... smh
I only felt bad for Prince and  Rose..little ed is not sad about not bringing Prince. He's only thinking about himself.
I never laughed so hard in my life i can't breathe ed your killing me 😂😂😂😂😅😅
Her living looks so natural I would love that experience!! Would not complain
Honestly I love Rose's dad, can we give him his own show
The tension in this episode was awful. God bless everyone in this video to find their happiness and success.
that was the oldest looking rat i've ever seen, it looked like a jim henson puppet
her reactions are so me when a dude tries to judge my living situations, love her.
He is complaining about not having his sheets 😂😂. This odd shaped dude is lucky to have a lady talking to him. He better take what he can.
To Ed, this was the most horrible and putrid experience of his life. To Rose, this is just a regular tuesday.
Yesir & one of the most memorable situations Ed & Rose.
Finally!!! When I started learning English I used to watch this weird program xd I've always wanted to know what happened here
Big Ed's hilarious, i haven't chuckled like this for a while
Why did i never find this gem from so many years. 😂
I would like to be there instead of Ed, just for new experience,... sleeping on the floor.. feeding the pigs... and that rat was quite cute 😊
The fact that rose has to comfort ed when it goes dark is crazy😮
Ed looks like a character from whoville from the grinch lol
Ed, the man you can’t hang, as he has no neck.
The way he said "oh my god" when he saw the sickly rat sent it for me 😂😂😂
A lot of Ed haters here but it sounds forced. Sure he didn't acknowledge the struggles Rose and her village goes through but he understands the tough environment of living there especially with a lot of hazards around. Ed most likely has never been in such an environment as he always lived in a more comfortable environment in the U.S explaining his thoughts and reactions. But the fact that he still stays with her despite her conditions shows a lot. Maybe for the show or whatnot but he really seems desperate to get right with Rose whilst trying to cope being in a new land. He does have the right to be wary of why she wants him whether for money or love as it happened to many people. I for one liked how Ed handled this knowing his capabilities and experiences.
I can't believe her father would want her to be with this man, but i guess he wanted her to be with someone that would take care of her.
I've been to the Philippines, that's life there more most people. My wife is Filipina, I love watching these videos where people come over there and are so shocked. Watching Ed make me laugh, me is such a big wimp.
I've been to the Philippines, that's life there more most people. My wife is Filipina, I love watching these videos where people come over there and are so shocked. Watching Ed make me laugh, me is such a big wimp.
Poor rat though :( looked like it was on the verge of death and was paralyzed
I bet he had his reservations but didn’t want to hurt his daughter’s feelings.
That  🥷 looked liked he got his azz beat the next morning😂😂😂😂😂
Scared dad's gonna say no? How....all he EVER replies is "yes,yes"! Lmaoooo
When she asked him if he was okay the face he was making was hilarious at 5:13 that man was suffering
“Oh I dropped the soap 🧼 “ well we know he won’t last in prison 😂
"That's a mouse or a rat?"    "I think so."
if head and shoulders can get a girl then i can too lol
He’s so privileged and sheltered it’s insane. Even if you grew up in a very safe home doesn’t mean you can be ignorant and complain abt other peoples places of living. Look around in the world, not every place is like American middle and upper class homes.
rose's dad is like my moms dad, he had a farm, was into trading horses, loved taking care of the animals with feeding them and stuff. honestly , working on a farm isnt so bad, at least youre burning calories and can get slim that way, it's always good to take a bath or shower after that hard work. i admire rose's dad. my moms dad was part cherokee.
Why tf did she have to leave her son, they come as a package deal. I'd never make anyone leave their kid to come stay at a hotel, hell I'd take the kid.
doesn’t have to worry about sticking his neck out for someone.. so there’s that…
When you're so used to a first world  living, going into a situation as impoverished as Rose's, it will come as a big shock to you.   Basically, Ed blurts out whatever everyone's impression is in their mind but are too scared to speak.
I'm going to forever die on this hill but I don't think Ed was wrong here and I don't think he should have been criticized for this. This conditions are ROUGH AF, half of us would have felt the same. People trying to act as if they wouldn't make a big deal if they had to sleep on the floor, in a room with no ceiling, with rats, etc. are just simply lying. You think you know what to expect but it's a whole another thing to actually have it be your reality.
The respect towards Rose is long gone when she had a kid out of wedlock. The dad is delusional. That house is horrible.
9:45 I love roses reaction and expression on her face 😂😂😂
poor Ed he is in a tough spot too. I dont think his life is easy.
omg i feel sorry for how bad this ppl are living😢
Poor Ed had to endure 3rd world conditions. I'd be wayyy worst than him
Ed would do my head in he constantly wants reassurance  from rose hes like a little kid , but it was ok for him to ask loads of questions , rose didnt care shes so honest, none of these america people do their homework its a very poor country . Not the ritz
she is litterally 100 procent of the time looking like she is disgusted, tired and exhausted from him ...XD and I fully understand her!
Im glad they're not together anymore. Rose deserves someone who can appreciate and understand her better
Lol I'm so first worlder I was confused when he said "Half the rooms don't have windows, so it's pretty much open" then I realized he meant the actual glass and not the structure of an entire window, my mind thought the rooms were all windowless and dark and then he said "Open" and thought Ed was just being Ed.
I swear he reminds me of the penguin lmao 🤣 😅
Ed was mad about sleeping on a wet mattress but said “yeah sure” quick asf to the dad wanting to shower with them without any hesitation. lol
The dad took it very well when it came to bringing that thing into the home
 @michaelaaxrachel  If people on reality tv kept their comments to themselves we wouldn’t have reality tv.
I mean, he knew her conditions I'm sure she told him that it's rough over there where she is and even if she didnt, you can very easily look up the conditions in certain places, but he still showed up so he can't complain.
 @gabbygabby6439  you completely missed the point of my comment. Seeing something online or hearing about it is very different than that being your reality. People just don’t like Ed (for good reasons) so they try to pretend like in this scene he was so out of line but he was not. Most people would feel some type of way.
 @danielabernal4961  listen he's not wrong for feeling that way but complaining constantly was the issue. Maybe he should have better prepared himself before he went to a country he knows is struggling financially once again it's easy to know the conditions and prepare; He didn't do that so he has no right to complain about how hard it is there because how do you think she feels. It's hard for everyone there but they make do so he should do the same. He just sounds like a coddled American
I've lived in the ghetto most of my life and have lived under most of these conditions in the great country of America. Ed was in the wrong in every single aspect. Not only did he disrespect her, he didn't take into one ounce of consideration that Rose has to live like this every single day while he can't stand it one single night. He's a vile piece of shit that expected the place to be like California.  Now I understand what you're saying, people often don't understand how difficult I have it in my house (if you can even call it that) so when I talk about my living conditions, they simply don't get it. But they don't judge me for it. Ed judged Rose when that's all she had. People were hard on him in this scene because HE DESERVED IT.
 @Prism_Heavy  If you’ve lived in the ghetto most of your life than you’re probably used to living under not the best conditions. That is you, not the rest of the country. And the fact that Rose is used to living like this is exactly my point. She’s used to it, for her is normal. For someone who grew up or is used to living differently, of course it’s going to be an extreme change even if it’s just one night. There are far worse things Ed has done and said that he should be criticized for, being uncomfortable and feeling shock at those living conditions is not one of them. Those are horrible living conditions and if you’re not used to them, obviously you’re going to have a tough time.
 @danielabernal4961  You've completely missed my point. Please reread what I initially said.
Yeah I’ve spent a bit of time with similar conditions tho not as rough; I experienced rats on the mattress and big fat roaches. It was tough and unpleasant for people who aren’t used to it for sure.
Yea I can see both views point. Although you he should be considered I would agree that I would be uncomfortable sleeping there, especially if it not my norm. At the end day he his still a guest in their home and the point of having someone in your home it making sure they are comfortable in your home and guest should also respect someone the person home. Unfortunately she couldn’t provide that due to circumstances and as result he couldn’t be all the way respectful. Lastly she asked him was he comfortable and he told the truth, he could have dial it back but he was honest and didn’t lie. So I don’t know.
It’s how he handled the situation and how he lacked any empathy and compassion for how she lives. It was all “I don’t like it. I feel uncomfortable.” Never “and I hope she doesn’t feel that way too. She’s so resilient for thriving in these conditions.”  So yes, he was wrong in how he behaved. Entitled. And didn’t even want to know her son or father.
I agree! Obviously he could've been a bit more tactful and sensitive about the whole situation, but hell no could i have slept there.
 @danielabernal4961  No, I understood you completely. As I literally said, it's one thing to be ignorant about these conditions and a other to be judgemental and lack empathy for the person. Ed was fine to be uncomfortable. He was not okay to be a judgemental asshole who completely disregarded her situation because of his spoiled entitlement.
I wouldn't want to meet the other halve that whine about living like that. Not my kind of people
Exactly. Don't get me wrong I don't like the guy, but come on now. I sure as hell wouldn't like it either 🤷‍♀️
Crazy how you say that knowing people live like this everyday and don’t have a choice but to live this way. Be humble and don’t just say ignorant things.
 @yulajay  this isn't ignorance its fact, Philipeans is poor. This has nothing to do with feelings or rudeness or whatever. get over it.
 @yulajay  its not really ignorance even the filipino people dont want to live there lol
 @ratqueen3809  bro exactly my point I’m literally saying that people don’t have a choice to move away or go to another country. They have to live the way they do because of corruption.
I would die of shame if my girlfriend described me in that way with that condescending smile on television.
I had a ice cold shower yesterday but I was so grateful to have the chance to have a shower❤❤❤
I wasn't looking just listening to the video and said I would only take that from someone who looked sooo good. Then I looked and 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂 I can't believe......
Rose just showed him what the situation is, being poor is a reality, it's not a joke but him being there is just so hilariously funny.
Her dad was worried that he was going to crush her😁
This dude is such a whimp. She needs someone better for sure.
Welcome to the Philippines, bud!!   Its a beautiful country
Atopic dermatitis  and can only use 1000 stread count sheets thats funny
10:03 sorry but I would act like ed in this scene. the fact that they sleep on the floor and the door is open when there is RATS RIGHT OUTSIDE?? I would be running …
Dude. It’s one thing to go to Philippines. But look for someone your age.
Is that a mouse or a rat!? Rose: Yea 😂😂 she’s has me hollering
I don’t believe Ed has ever lived a “hard life” where low pay, poverty and hard work is the norm. I could see how unimpressed she was with this man. I could see the complete disappointment written all over her face. I hope ED is back to his soft life, sleeping under his expensive 1000 thread count bed sheets.
She is definitely getting that green card and money to go through marrying that dude LOL
She need them royalties every month she only played with ed for a few 😂😂😂
I remember watching this when I was locked up. Everyone loved some good ole 90 days Fiancé 😂
Is not about the room...is who is the person sleeping next to me... 😅ed? No
I think a mouse 🐁? The Dad: it’s our house pet😂
Sorry to break it to you Ed, you're not just her meal ticket but you'll be expected to look after the family as well, new wiring, fix the roof and there's always going to be new emergencies, never huge amounts but he'll always have his hand in his pocket.
Ed : Rose, what is that? Rose : I thill mouse?? 😭😭
Ed is like "Why am I still here just to suffer? "  🤣🤣
Chris Farley REALLY sleeping in a van, down by the river!!😂
What happened to this guys neck? He turns his head like Michael Keaton batman. 😂
For pete’s sake, he is afraid of everything. I was raised on a farm, so its hiliarious to see Big Ed freak out on the smallest thing😛🤪🤪🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
okay whose idea it was to bring this creature to this show?? cuz brilliant!
a bed frame and mattress is like $250 and he's worried about thread count sheets on a non-existent mattress.
I'm so glad rose isn't ashamed how she lives in what she lives in. I located at samoa and over there it's really hot so we use mattress and maybe beds too. Cousins and family share beds and we aren't ashamed too because it's actually normal around here!
"but there's a tropical storm outside and i'm stuck" sent me for some reason
Lol always makes me laugh seeing these episodes. Ed has never seen  living conditions outside the USA
I tell you what...If Chris Farley was alive and he seen this, we would have had the BEST recreation video EVER!!😂😂
He is a lot to take in! His face and his invisible neck 😂😂😂😂
If no neck can get a woman there’s hope for us all!!!!!!
Haha, mom, dad meet my new American Fiance, his names Chris, Chris Farley!!😂
Ed looked so disheveled like a wet poodle and chihuahua mix when they woke up! I lmaoooo
The ego often creates contradictions within our desires and emotions, leading us into a state of inner conflict. In your example about the plants, the ego behaves in a way that can be described as an internal battle where desires are in conflict with each other.  Breaking down the contradictions the ego creates: "I don’t want plants because they’re a nuisance": The ego sees the plants as unnecessary disturbances. It might perceive them as obstacles that interfere with its space or comfort. In this moment, the ego rejects the plants because it wants to maintain control and power over its surroundings, rather than embracing harmony with them.  "I want coolness, but I destroy the plants": This is an ironic contradiction. Plants actually provide coolness and comfort, but the ego, in its desire to control the environment, might think that destroying the plants will ensure its personal space or comfort. However, this makes the situation worse—by destroying the plants, the coolness is lost, and the ego is left with even less comfort.  "I get even angrier": As the ego becomes frustrated and doesn’t achieve its goal (coolness), the anger intensifies. The ego is trapped in a vicious cycle—it tries to control and maintain power in situations where the better approach would be to seek balance or work with nature, but it refuses to because of its rigidity and desire to win.  The root cause: Lack of balance and self-awareness The ego often isn’t aware of its own inflexibility. It seeks instant gratification for its desires without thinking of the long-term consequences. In this example, instead of finding a solution that involves adapting to the surroundings, the ego responds with reactive and destructive behaviors that only worsen the situation.  The solution: Self-awareness and adaptability To break out of this contradictory cycle, the person needs to recognize their inner conflicts and make an effort to consider the long-term effects of their actions. In the case of the plants, they could realize that, instead of destroying them, they could adjust their space or find ways to release frustration without resorting to destructive behaviors.  The solution lies in compassion for the surroundings and learning to adapt rather than engage in a destructive struggle. Instead of destroying the plants out of ego, the person could accept their value in their life—they provide coolness, clean air, and beautify the space. The ego would calm down if it recognized that natural balance and respect for others are key to its inner peace.  Conclusion: The ego loves contradictions because it does not allow for flexibility or understanding. Instead of adjusting to natural conditions or others, the ego tries to control and manipulate situations for its own benefit, often to the detriment of long-term harmony and balance. When a person begins to understand that true peace and fulfillment come from adaptation and compassion, rather than from struggle and destruction, they can begin to free themselves from the ego and start living a more harmonious life.
I love how he has to turn his body like Michael Keaton’s Batman suit 😂😂
I could never ever live like that, NEVER! I feel for these poor people in the Philippines, in fact in the world.
the facts that his girl had to calm him down and walk him through literally sleeping
The rat was looking at them like " Yo yall gon pass the soap or naw?".....
Bruh, you cant get a good footing cuz you butter walking on mud!!😂😂 Aint got nothing to do with plastic lmao!
Some people wonder where they’ll get their next meal, and some people think they’ll die if the thread count for their sheets is less than a 1,000 lmao wild times we live in
I cant help but thinking ed is a chris farley character everytime i see him.
i wish Rose the best in her life , prayers to her and her family. she deserves better. smh
He's Michael Keaton in batman the way he turns his head to look around and yet he resembles the penguin and killer croc.
TLC HOW DO I ADDITION FOR 90 DAYS FINANCE? BUT I LIVE IN CANADA
The electrics look absolutely fine ed nothing wrong with them, buddy😂😂😂😳😳😳
He reminds me of that guy from men in black that eats the sugar cubes lmao
I never can find love no matter how hard I have searched. And this  big Ed went to meet a very good woman and treats her badly. I hope Rose has found a good man now and is in peace 😢
Dude's giving me Chris Farley vibes😂 But on a serious note, how blessed are we. I've been through hard times here in my Great country of USA too. After my father passed in the 90s.. we lost everything and ended up in a cabin with dirt floors and no electricity no plumbing no restroom.. just an out house.. But fwd to now and I'm blessed by my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ 🙏🏽😊
How dare ed say that to the rat😵 That rat was a master in the Philippines 🐁 That rat has experienced and survived the storms of the Philippines and can proudly say 📣"Bagyo kalang Pinoy ako!", 🇵🇭🇵🇭🇵🇭
how many people are born without necks? i have never seen that b4.
"I never shared a room with my girlfriend and her father" that is the only normal thing this dude has ever said in the entire show
I grew up poor as can be lol I woulda threw a tarp over the roof 🤣
got to have a mosquito net if you sleep in those places. I done it without the net I was eatten alive LOL
drying himself off with his dirty sweaty shirt from the day prior is wild
Rose is so sweet. I hope she has a great life.
She starts getting him with the hose, There’s chickens an………. Rabbit n birds okay okay I’m done haha
Ed, Dropped the soap 🧼🤣😂 ,  Thank God , it was not in jail . LOL 😂
Why is no one talking about my bro The Rat  @9:43... his cameo was perfect. Bro dont be hating on Mr Rat he has the same skin condition as you.
I always loved these episodes. My dad is from the same province and it gives me more insight on things I saw him do growing up.
That was hilarious... 🤣.. this was fun, tell him that I had a lot of fun... while sweating and about to pass out 😂 at the pig farm
that electrical is definitely NOT fine lmao and yes some people are very poor but why do the walls have to be so filthy also?
The camera man and the sound recordist are doing a great job, they’re much more balanced than Ed.
First time I see this episode.  Am I thinking what I feel we are all thinking?
Lol I have watched these videos about Ed probably 5 times since it's hit youtube and it still makes me laugh and Ed hahaha
Bro that rat looked so cracked out he himself was thinking “Damn where tf Am I” lmao 🤣
Can we talk about the misery and the poorness of this family and the life conditions of the animals??? Ed just cares about his shoes???
@tragedyturnedtriumph4180  well I thought it was his younger brother..... rip Chris Farley
i feel so sorry for Rose tho, she just tryin to live a better life, and take out of there her son :((
LOL the scene where he's feeding the pig and he's walking like he's a blind-folded Toddler, the Dad carrying his hand, I don't even see what the trouble is, I guess the stupid bags are slipping. "Take care of yourself..."
This show introduces us to marriage fraud exists 😂 great show!!
i sleep in a faraday cage like that growing up hahaha!
Is this for real?  This guy is a spoilt baby
54 year old needs to look at the girl and then buy himself a mirror and be thankfull, not that he'll ever get any action but he doesn't know that obviously.
The first time I spent the night in my fiance's home, it was really relaxing, and I slept like a baby. Did mosquito bite me? yes, did she sleep on the floor? yes, did her home's roof look like this one? yes, but her kindness, the love and effort that she put in making me comfortable were enough to forget the other details. Now, I call her house my home, and everytime I go back to Philippines, I only want to go to my Philippine's province home. I love that home.
Ahhh a leaky roof now we have a fresh supply of water 😅 just fix the dam roof lol
Oh my God I dropped the  soup🧼 😂😂😂😂 he didn't wanna pick it up as man coz he knows once u burned over eint no come up
"I think I just got bit by a mosquito, that was a tough tough night" smh.
How you expect it not to be about money lol here in 2025 guys 😂😂
Dudes going to a poor country to find a woman to marry him and is worried if its about the money smh
I would’ve fixed Rose’s roof in the rain the moment I saw the leak, I hope she got it fixed by now.
I mad this is my first time seeing this lol funny af
My ex Filipina was ashamed to bring me to her family village. I told her that I really want to share with them. Telling you something, I enjoyed to be with them and they appreciate me better for that. I was so worried to learn all to don’t made wrong things, so learned to use po and to ask for mano po. Great days of my life. I don’t like Ed’s attitude, he complains for everything.
Bro how you have no neck. He choose a poor woman, and wondering why they want money
that's really false girl. look around at 1:39 if you don't notice it.
I would have to be deaf blind and have no sence of smell to be around him . This poor girl 😢
I'd do it! Lmao.. Maybe with a mosquito net and I'd be set..
Them showing Ed while she Sais “with pig” got me dying.
i love Rose. i was raised same way in Hawaii.  I didnt think I was poor, everyone in Hilo was same as us.  i was happy pretty much growing up
How come 1000 thread count sheets and all the comfort of life create humans like Ed, and leaky roof, rats, hose showers create genuine and healthy people like Rose and her dad
When bro turns his whole ass body cuz he has no neck I just cant.. 😂 Mofos head just cut ALL ties with his neck and ran straight to his shoulders😂
I never met a filipina over 23 that doesn’t have at least two kids and hasn’t been married.
8:08 who knows what’s running through Ed’s freaky ass head lmao
I was there for two weeks, it’s very different than America and give you another perspective
I still cant believe that Ed used Mayo in his hair
Who, living in those circumstances, wouldn’t be looking for a meal ticket out?
Hard times shape good people or it kills you, life expectancy is alot lower there.
I’m ding of too much laughing sorry if i didn’t write it good!
He should have gotten the dad. Made a deal to fix home for his blessing.
Hes so ridiculous he over reacts and just acts out like its the end of the world i think hes so fake the way he acts like a child
it still baffles me how ed has absolutely no understanding or respect about how rose lives. i get that he comes from america and is used to his more privileged environment but this is the reality for a lot of fillipinos. that's why family is so important to us because even when there's holes in the roof and bugs flying around, we have each other
What type of soft ass shit is that I can only sleep on 1000 count sheets
😂 Ed is hilarious, but in the end Rose is not a good match for him
Ed doesn't seem like the type of bloke to put his neck out for anyone.
“I like the view” “You do?” “Yes” “You’re my best view” “Neh c:”
Rose is fekin cool!!!!  So proud of what she has, so grateful ❤️
He was a good sport I would run away from one second
he could of least gave rose dad some money to say thank you or go food shopping. bro. back in new zealand it called respect. He fully has no idea how to respect.
Wow look at where he is and still having to punch above his weight 😂
Out of nowhere this popped up  on my recommendation 😂
LMAO Ed going to see his family at the pig farm!
"So, do you like living in the Philippines?"  Bruh. That has got to be the most asinine question you could ever ask someone steeped in poverty who doesn't even have the means to spend a single day in another country, much less experience living in one. Absolutely wild. ☠☠
From the thumbnail I thought this was a new Jack Black movie.
he doesnt want to take her on a vacation to get time alone with her... he just wants air conditioning and to leave lol
Well they are even, her house is for the little one, as the little one is for Rose
This dude reminds me of the frog in the movie Weird Science.
The parents got something to tease about for a very long time. 😂😂😂
Lol that shower was a setup… she is disgusted by him
Ed is like hearing fart you just have to laugh about it.
Its really tough specially if u don't have a neck 6:46
at this point Ed won't even survive in rural areas in AMERICA 🤣🤣🤣 he's so baby 🍼🍼🍼 glad rose didn't go with him 😭 he says AMERICA like they don't have pig or mud !!!  he is average person acting like he owns the world bc he is American.
Poor Rose. I get it now. She's trying to get out by any means necessary.
Este episodio es lo máximo hahahaha cuando se bañan juntos hahah 😂😂😂
Rose does not have to leave Prince, you are leaving him there.
Ed is like a parody of a clueless entitled american its funny
Ed looks like he has FAS. The condition he has is also a sign of FAS klippel fiel syndrome
The look on her face when she looks at him is disgust almost. Makes me wonder how rich this dude must be
Who here is getting these clips suggested after watching Rebal D’s reaction and commentary video to this episode?
he had the audacity to question rose her intention when he been insulting her the entire time
Can he wear a necklace?? Im just curious bec he's neckless hahahahah
What a doink. Rose is certainly better without him. When I would visit my grandmother in Puerto Rico, sometimes the water in her neighborhood would go out so she had water in a large container saved for emergencies to flush the toilet and shower with. I didn’t mind it at all. It was like bathing in a water fall lol. My fiancé is from the Philippines and when I went to visit with her to meet her family, it was a wonderful experience and I had an amazing time. Great food, great people, great atmosphere.
Well, there has only been maybe 1 other occasion in your life to share a room with the dad.
Poor guy as to relive this 💩 over and over again
Bro needs to worry about finding his neck before finding a relationship 🤣💯
He woulda got more respect if he just told them his name was Chris Farley amd he was famous! 😂 This dudes at least an illegitimate bastard from one of Farleys tourscapades!😂
Isn’t he with another girl on 90 day rosy ? He’s been on the show twice ?
U have never Been to prison if u think that was the worst night of your life.
siguro iniisip rose nung nag cocomplain si ed sa sleep nya “arte ampota”😭😂
Imagine being a grown ass man and having another grown man tell you he needs to keep an eye on you. That's how you know you're creepy for real 😂
I have to side with ed on the hotel thing once the rat made an appearance in the shower 😂
HOW TLC ALLOWED THIS ABUSIVE MAN TO ABUSE WOMAN ON TV. IS SO IRRESPONSIBLE AND DISCUSTING. THERE IS SOMETHING SO WRONG WITH THIS MAN MENTALLY AND PHYSICALLY. HE IS DISCUSTING IN EVERY WAY. SHAME ON YOU  TLC  SHAME
Ed was asking if that is mouse or rat like rose had it as a pet in her home
What is this show I’ve stumbled across and who is the human slug thing ?
Building a relationship means you got to make alot of sacrifices Like I have been for 8 years it has taken me a long time to Get where I am now Today ♥️👍👍👌
How absolutely mean and selfish of him not to include Prince in the “vacation” — what a creep. 🚩 🚩 🚩
Trust me I know. Water under a frozen lake isn’t colder than water from a well. So if your ever in this situation ask for water to be boiled. Then you will take 2 cups 1cold and 1piping hot. Then you have to hold both cups above your head and pour the right ratio of hot and cold to get the best shower within 1000 miles. Haha it was an experience.
People like Ed is so ungrateful and selfish. Rather sympathize with Rose, he just straight up insulst her.
Ed: Do you like living in the Philippines?  Freddy: Yes, it’s not like I was born here or anything..
Bro forgot his neck in the states. No wonder he was so uncomfortable.
😂 very good learning experience what love ❤️ can make you do
She’s right about a big western baby! 😂😂😂 what these poor women got to go through!
How disrespectful and embarrassing for him acting like a 2 yr old at somebody else’s home who welcomed you even tho they don’t have a lot she should have kicked him out the first day
He is so full of himself... really disgusting... when he thinks money is everything in this world 🌎
As someone who's lived like that, I'd rather live like that than in the US with him. When you're used to it, you don't see it as such a bad thing, it's just normal
First night without a/c ? He even had it in the 60s that's crazy
I feel sad for Rose that she has to live like that, or that anyone has to live like that :( But crazy thing is, theres some people that have even less.
Ngl tbh I thought Ed was getting hate for no reason    This video said otherwise,
She don't love him she's using his ass for his money😂😂! And an American citizenship
just bless her❤but its life ....some people have nothing,and still are so happy🎉❤
Is noons’s gonna talk about how pretty her face is. She could model!
Conditions are so poor that even rodents get sick and die off.
Rose seems so sweet. I would love to spend a night in the Philippines and see how they live. She didn’t deserve big ef
Worried about where he sleeps. I don't think ed ever served in the military.
This guy think this young lady wanna married coz he is a prince he is crazy hahaha paper and money baby hahaa
2:24 bruh thought he was going to the Bahamas, humble yourself puto.
Big ed. Rose is too good for you. You were really lucky that she even spent anytime with you
How many girls he gets to harras before he gets to prison
Ed, I know that, this episode was taken several years ago!! I just wanted to watch it again. It must’ve been so traumatic experience for you. Coming from America 🇺🇸 💯 percent totally different, but it was an experience. Just close your eyes and pretend that you’re in shows called NAKED And AFRAID !!! The only difference is your not Naked 😅😂lol  I was born in the Philippines, but I have been living in here in America for almost 50 years… when I came back to visit the Philippines my biggest issue is the lack of hot water when I showered. Other than that I adopted to it! But hey….it’s living!!
Idk if it’s a good thing or bad thing but if this the person I love and this what what their experiencing I’m not passing any judgement I’m going to do what I can to help build and make it comfortable for her and her child. Even if I am not the richest person his entitlement and lack of empathy was very sad and embarassing to watch. You want a hotel to sleep and lay down with her comfortable temporary but don’t want to help contribute to stability for her.
I wouldn't be comfortable with his type even looking at a daughter of mine.
Wow i tought el chappo is a free men wow he looks like he is a twin of him that elguzman guy
bro you telling me that rose is 24 and ed is 54 ohh lord it  explains so much bc rose looks young and ed looks 40 something !
Here's a thought... buy her a bed and install an ac unit. Wouldn't cost much.
One after green card and the other young wife! Great match up guys! Well done!! What ever it takes for media when you know it was a flop!
she seems like a good girl , she deserves a good, sincere, smart and caring man that respects her and takes care of her - not ed, he is the opposite.  i am sure she finds one or already did, this show was a few years ago and she is quite famous now, her channel hopefully makes good money . her house is not all that bad considering how other people live, nevertheless she renovated her house a bit - it is much better now. good luck to her.
the only thing(s) i feel sorry for is Rose and all those poor animals
As a Filipino living in Manila, I feel so sorry for Big Ed. My gosh, the secondhand embarrassment that I have because of this.
Really you think money has anything to do with it?…….your comforts vs. hers are very different……why?…..because of MONEY
Vigilando a la hija...y pidiendo permisos y ya bien parida 😂😂😂😂
they eat the bunnies since bunnies shouldn’t be raised in cages since it causes stress so rip to them😢❤😔😨
"So, you like living in the Philippines?" "Yes." "We're kind of in the jungle, no?" "Yes." "Are we getting close to the pig farm?" "Yes."  "There's somewhat of a language barrier between us."
He’s a little bit sad for prince. He just wants his end. Simple.
I feel sad for the guy honestly. I dont know why everyone is bashing him in the comments. Ofcourse he has his drawbacks, but i feel the girl is more selfish. Just for a green card, she is doing all this. Its not that he is forcing her. Plus she is not pretty, plus a mom. Stop SIMPING guys!
She did this for money and a green card. Which she's set now with. You really think she ever wanted Eddy No Neck? 😂
 @tylaw6173  of course not lol tho filipinas can be loyal and loving wives.
She is using him so she can get a better life. case closed. and He is using her as well.
imagine if this guy got lost in the forest for a day
When your mum makes a shit/disgusting meal you dont complain you shovel it down and you say thank you.. its called respect so i imagine if your dating someone from a poorer part of the world you act the same way
Everybody in the comments frontin like they wouldn't act the EXACT same way
Ed, yes, its her meal ticket and a way out. Don't simp
Personally, I would love the chance to visit the Philippines. He's totally missing the point.
Why is ed so boojie 😂😂😂😂😂 dudes complaining about everything lol
I can’t stand a person that complains all the time. Research everything about the country before you visit it.
Do you ever watch a guy in a movie ruin a chance with a girl in a movie! And wish you could be in his spot!  That’s how I feel here lol. He’s a baby
Shame on him for what he said and did to her
dam i would love all that , ed is just a city guy with money. he’s not used to that life style
This girl is absolutely beautiful. Sad lack of money gets her to put up with and serve a big over grown baby. If he was smart and a good man he would embrace her and her world.. maybe she would end up liking him
If someone has a life that is difficult or uncomfortable Dont get involved stay well away. Because if your not happy dont stay because of love. Because both of you will get hurt💯
It was a tv show. If they would have all perfect together, no one would be watching. And now, bearing this in your minds rewrite your comments 😂
If I am the father I say no way troll is dating my daughter
First ed took a bath with soap later soap took a bath
If it ment for jus a show that's what we'll get after all most of the time?
Poor Rose cheese, younger, and twice her age and he’s not even mad enough to protect her or even accept her lifestyle. He’s insulting and disrespectful.
Ed looks more like her father than her actual father i'm-
I think if you really care about someone, a little sacrifice won't hurt. Especially if you're just visiting.
Wait... son? Shebis already married and divorced when she is only 23?
She lives in sweaty squalor and looks at him crooked because he’s uncomfortable.
I am amazed at this guy’s desperation at scoring with a female who weighs less than 500 lb
I understand being poor but being dirty I’ll never understand. Those walls are filthy
When a 23 year old girl is more mature than 54 year old guy. Lol
Poor young lady, is She  going to actually marry this guy?.... damn!...
The way Rose and her family looked at Ed was basically the way the entire world is looking at America xD : rich men/women-children who don't really know anything outside of their comfort zone.
I don't like Ed so this episode is absolute gold 🥇
I don't think that's his only problem. He can't move his head without moving his body.
If the dad has to sleep in same room she's not old enough to be dating. That's weird.
She is more mature than he is, she could definitely do better.
My dream for my daughter is to marry an AFAM. She was only 12yrs old now but when she finished college, I will make sure that she will marry an AFAM.
Asking her to leave to go to a hotel, and leave her son behind. Kick him to the curb. She is to young. And its obvious, rose and her family are poor and are marrying rose off for money.  The dad just lets a strange man, go to a hotel. This is ridiculous.
I'm only three minutes into this video that showed up on my feed and I'm totally captivated.   This short fat man makes up for his lacks with a most expressive face and voice.  The 3000-thread count had me on the floor. Rosa's home is PRECIOUS, leaks and all, beautiful colors.  It is how I love to live, by choice, in summertime.  Okay, now I'm going back to see what's happening now. Her father is a real father.
WTF is this XD Rose Rose i drop the Soup XD
Can't blame Ed, who in their rite mind would stay in that dump
I know she’s an adult so it doesn’t matter about the age, but the AGE DIFFERENCE GUYS COME ON!! 😭😭 Who put her in this show honestly? He treated her so badly throughout the entire show and acted like a little brat smh 🤦‍♀️ I can understand the dads concern because he barely knows the dude and the guys probably older than her dad—😭💀
I see all the Passport bro hate girls loving this to the max
I don't care if my daughter is 40, I don't trust Mojo with her and I'm staying close.
Some people having no other chance but live in places like this. Society and capitalism traps these people. Its important to understand world is not just about your country, there are different life styles and different economics.
You need a thousand count bed sheet for a medical condition, what kind of bull shit is that. He is acting liking a scared little girl. She is a good looking nice girl, look at you. Omg, dude that's why you went to a foreign country. What did you expect. You just got there, stop acting like a freaking baby. You weren't all that in America. So you know I am American. I live in Thailand. Expect cultural differences. You are acting in a insulting manner and making Americans look bad.
South Eastern asains are so humble and sweet ed should stop being a baby and appreciate her
TBH Ed is cool, he has that Jack Black vibes if you know what I mean.
If a rat can’t survive there how are human beings gojng to? Lol
This mf'er doesn't have a neck, he has to turn his whole body to look around🤣 poor girl.
I sure hope they find the SOB who stole Ed's neck.
I stay in a third-world country, brother. At least the conditions aren't as bad buuuuuuuttt I mean, if I could be given the opportunity to move to even a 2 world country, I take it every time
i am sorry, but i think the mouse/rat is actually scared of Ed more.....
Me a illongo I lived in Ilo Ilo for 6 years and lived with brown out all the time then this ed guy can’t live 1 night
But bro is 54 ? She’s 23 , he could be her father that feels so wrong…
Leaving her son behind is shitty..at least let him spend the last day/night at the hotel.
He has such a first world mindset. She is not at all bothered by her family home. She looks comfortable and her family all look happy & healthy.Yes I am sure anyone would love to have a nice big beautiful home but she isn't negative she appreciates what she has and is in the comfort of the home she grew up in and he had 0 respect for her, her culture, or her family.
She already looking at him like a meal ticket not love. Not her fault for real hes pretty desperate
I hate to comment but what the hell is going on here then?
The existence of this guy and the fact that girl would share her bed with him for free disproves evolution and natural selection
Her home may look a certain way but damn rather live where she does than be with Ed
Dude you ain't nobody's meal ticket, how stupid!!! Stop lying and complaining. 😂
u r not sleeping on the street right?.....and u r lucky u still sleepinG we called HoUse..
I don’t have air conditioning it’s not essential to survive I leave the windows open to circulate and shut them I mean I get it’s not his fault or so on but you could atleast act like like an adult and respect the way she has to live it’s not like she lives like that out of choice that’s just the way it is In some countries
They call me "Big Ed"  Yea ooookay who does??  More like "no neck"
Ed: how do I get over there, ? Rose: like this Ed: just throw it? Rose: yeah yeah  Ed:(Throwsfood) Son of a b! lol
Sad, these men looking for poor  women who would do anything to get married to any American man to escape poverty!
That poor rat looks seriously stunned to have seen Ed showing, quite dazed it seems
She’s got red flags all over her and more than half the comment section can’t see it. She’s disgusted by him, doesn’t care for him at all and only wants to get his money for her AND her family in the Philippines. How is he unsure of what he sees. How is he doubting what’s so obvious? The look on Rose’s face is almost hateful but definitely disgust and she probably can’t wait till her 10-11 years of marriage is up so she can try to take him for all he has and get spousal support on top of it all. Oh, and of course her magic green card.  The Philippines are NOTORIOUS for these kinds of women.
Ed got no neck and Rose looks photogenic but not to much videogenic lol
Big ed dodged a bullet! With not getting with her. Imagine the life he’d have! Yikes.   Know the signs guys! I know the puntang is tempting but know when the girl and her environment is crazy!
the way the rat looks it seems like someone put some dirt on her and tied her down on one foot, so she cant move ^^
The pigs thought that Big Ed was one of there one kind.
Yeah this young, beautiful filipino woman I’m sure is 100% crazy about this guy
they should have left in the pen with the other little piggies :)
I love that life in the Philippines, he was so lucky but he was square peg in round hole diba
Theres a whole lot that's insane.. like the fact you wore bright orange Nike running shoes to the poorest part of the phillipines,.. what, not ONE person decided to tell you that isn't smart?  Also, how the HELL is she with you?
Ed you can tell you are not well traveled.didnt you google the phillipines  and  their culture.
They reshaping this again lol. Shit so old. But bruh went out bad over that girl lmaoooo. His ass on the floo
Nuh man, Rose is such a natural sweetie. Ed is pathetic; who comes up with these matches?
Did she loose a contest or something in Vietnam.. good looking girl, why is going for Borka from usa?
I mean she's selling and he's buying when buying a car a second hand car I might add you don't want to go to the factory to see how it was made do ya don't blame him what a dump
Rose look sad that he doesn't like her house bcz he didn't like her childhood home he is a actually jerk not to be rude🥲
Did he used to work as a whack-a-mole? The longer I go without watching television, the worse it looks. This is what gets people tuned in between the same commercials over and over?
Don’t worry bro- she loves you… It has nothing to do with your money and US citizenship 🙄
This shows you a man will be with a woman no matter what, she has no roof, no bed, etc. but a man will die on the floor all alone if it was the other way around.
And that lads & lassies is why I hated this thing from day 1 , the way it b1tch3d about rose's family and her home. It's not her fault she has not had a privileged life , the main thing is they are a family that love and care for each other and don't treat each other like 💩. They don't complain about there living situation , how frigg tlc allowed his behavior to continue the it did is p155 poor
Poor rat looks like it’s about to die after seeing ED half naked!
Ed cheated on his pregnant wife, which makes him the scum of the earth. He will never, ever find happiness.
Their is nothing worse to go on a date to find out your date breath smells foul . Like what a major turn off. To me at least use mouthwash or something before going .
I hope and prey that she never was intimate with that blob
I’m sorry but that’s nasty no way I would stay there and to have him take a shower with your father?!? Are you kidding me? Hell no I wouldn’t stay there for even one night! lol I don’t like ED but looking back with this scene I agree with him 100 percent
I don't think a big guy has the right to be so picky about bad breath and such poverty. Get a mirror!!!
Disgusting. He’s more worried about himself spending a night there than about the fact that she sleeps there all the time. So careless. Also, she’s model material. What’s she doing with a guy like him ?
I can't say I blame Ed Poverty is one thing but there is no excuse for the filth
as someone who's morrocan and has to live like this during summer vactions, i think  Ed is overreacting. And the way he really doesn't do effort in feeding the pigs is stupid.
Obviously ed taking advantage of her being half his age, he has a lot of nerve judging her taking advantage of a way to get out of the poverty strucken country. What a goof
Sa ces un vrai amour la gars accepte de vivre ici alors qui vie dans une belle maison au USA
that rat was like 89 years old and could barely stand
It's obvious that Ed just want to get laid, because he hasn't showed any intrest in Prince. We haven't seen Ed and Prince playing piggyback, catch or tag, which Ed should be familiar with due to being a father. I have been to the Philippines 5 times since 2017 and I always bond with my adopted nieces and nephews, the fact that Ed isn't even trying to bond with Prince just just shows that he's not intrested!
Dios ko ung tatay ni Rose? Gawain ba ng normal na pag iisip yan? Nag pa check up na ba yan?
So many pretty women there and he desperate and takes rose
This man is so selfish, doesnt stick his neck out for anyone
He has no neck. Ugh how does he look to the left or right?
Ed was soooo close to realizing why Rose was with him. 'After seeing how she lives, it's no wonder anyone would try to come to the US'. One could say they might even consider marrying an egg shaped man with no neck as an option.
He is a disgusting person.  Absolutely selfish and self centered.  What would a young girl want with him... well it's not hard to figure out.
This is so sad and disgusting that I can’t look away. Dude looks like a thumb wearing a wig. This can’t be real.
how does he like, have absolutely 0 neck. No no, it is not just a short neck, this dude does not have cervical spine, how is that even possible?
For a better life....yeah Money wise over in America that's all America is good for....and this guy has no respect at all ...i live in Portugal Azores island and iam from América and i love it here i have a family..etc..oh and i work too now do you guys think THIS GUY would find a job at there ....ps i know they' are not married etc...
She should be with me Im 24 and she 23 the old ahhs is 54 lmao
To be fair she is a grown women with a kid, not an innocent virgin lol
Both of them were trash she was so desperate for money she got with ed and ed honestly couldn’t do better then her? Like seriously??
what a "man" I feel bad for him, he just wants love and then lets himself get manipulated by such women.......
If rose is after for your money she will asked you to send money to fix her house but she didn't ... this guy complain to much and he's not even a bargain to begin with. He's Short no neck
I hate to break it to this guy, but any interest shown to him from a woman is going to be about his money
why y’all talking so bad about ed - he did absolutely nothing wrong . sometimes y’all be mad at the wrong person . but if y’all were in that situation y’all would of did nearly the same thing . He was polite in my opinion .
Man is a manchild. What woman wants that in her life. He agreed to go on a tv show. Wow, no integrity. Must be super desperate
With all the brain dead nonsense this channel spews put, it saddens me that the letters TLC stand for The Learning Channel. I remember when this was a channel dedicated to science and education. It blows my mind how far we’ve fallen as a society😢
This Girl is cool af the Rat reaktion is so sick
This man complains about HIS girlfriend's living conditions, there being no window but fails to empathize with her. His convos are all so lame too. Even the "gifts" he sent her had other intentions seeing how he sent her bed sheet for HIMSELF none the less.
This was one awckward setup, it almost feels kind of fake. He was a little bit selfish as well, worried more about himself and wether she was in love or wanting what he had. The thread count made me wonder, no creams or visible skin irritations when wearing regular clothing, it might be psychological. His request after the one night, was a bit selfish and creepy, why not bring her kid with for the time to get to know her, it almost seemed like he wanted to get into a nice hotel and have sex, not saying he was, just that type of request felt bad. If he was really considering her feelings and a future with her, then her kid should have come with, or he would have gone and spent some money to make her place more livable. Overall it seems like this was staged or fake maybe, the woman did not seem at all impressed with his attitude with her living situation. Really pretty and cute woman like that and she got stuck with a literal "man baby", he should have known her home would not have a thousand thread count sheets, maybe brought some of his own. This was a series or is a current series too....
Ed needs a free haircut To Look good 👍 👍 💯
Ed has no neck at all .. i feel sorry for Rose
Why don't he just find a women in the states? Be MUCH simpler. To top it off she has a KID. WTF is this guy thinking?????
I don’t understand why he’s so conceited, he’s below average at best. If it wasn’t for the show no one would know who he was.
Go buy a cot or something. And stay at night but go out during day. She might as well be going out with a woman.
That was one gnarly post-apocalyptic looking rat...lol.   After the toxic fallout of the nuclear third World War settles, these creatures will be the Earth's last remaining food source for humanity to survive on!!
typical californian meeting someone from the other side of the world. This is normal living condition for most ppl in the world. Instead of voicing his concerns and sadness for her, he doubts her intentions and focuses only on his comfort and needs. I think BOTH of them arent doing this for love tbh.
First of all this guy should not be picky at all, and he should have understood fillopino culture and the way poor people are forced to live , also he should have shown the woman more love and been happy , but I feel he made her embarrassed, he doesn’t deserve her , and he should have brought the son on the trip
This guy looks dis-gus-ting. I love money, but still i couldn't spend a minute with him even hor a billi9n dollars
EXCUSE ME!! ABOUT WHAT HE SAYS THAT WE JUST USE AMERICANS TO HAVE A BETTER LIFE FYI!! I HAVE AMERICAN HUSBAND AND I NEVER USE HIM TO GO TO AMERICA HE KNOWS WERE IM LIVING AND YOU SHOULD BE ASHAMED FOR THAT THING MY HUSBAND TELL ME WERE GONNA GO TO US BUT I REFUSE BC I DONT WANT TO GO THERE WHEN I SAW THIS IT MAKES ME SICK THATS WHY I DONT LIKE ED JN THE FIRST PLACE HES JUDGEMENT IS UNFORGIVABLE!!
This is the dumbest shit I've ever seen, my wife is Filipino and I've been there for dim to make a TV show about this is disgusting, you don't know the way of life over there and to make a reality show out of it is pathetic explanation point
Dude, if you are going to meet a lady atleast put yourself on a diet or do something to make yourself look good, we want that lady to look good, they expect the same
That shack was cozy and who wouldn't want to get hosed down by freezing rain water first thing in the morning? Forget about a luxury hotel, I'm all about that jungle life.
This is bullshit. She’s an actress. Her teeth are perfectly straight and gleaming white. I’ve spent a lot of time in the Philippines, and I’ve never met anyone who lives 5x better than that with that kind of dental care.
It's really not his fault actually any one who has never seen a chicken would freak over a nasty looking rat I mean disgusting. Rose doesn't love him which is clear so it's not his fault
ok so there having a shower together...................but with a half dead.Rat 😂😮..what next
This is old. This ed guy just isnt attractive. Even weird looking. Cant accept how rose lives. Even if this somehow worked for awhile i doubt it would last. Rose seems ok but ed needs to accept others as they are.
Ed, he is such a loser. You think it's okay to be disrespectful to Rose. Imagine living in Asian countries in the same condition, buddy grow up  he is so imature man My God. Im glad Rose broke up with him he is not worthy at all
ed so weak like a baby go home to your mama baby boy without neck
Not going to lie, I'd love to spend the night with Rose. I love storms! And laying on the floor will straighten out your back. She seems like a kind, genuine person who's not ashamed of where she comes from. She's dealt with all that her whole life, so if she told me things are fine, and taken care of, I'd believe her. I'm typing this as a woman who'd want to be her friend. I come from The united states, yeah I don't like the heat, and the concern of mosquitos would drive me kinda nuts, but I'd at least not complain about someone else's life and make them feel like a victim of circumstances in their own country, conditions, and beliefs. Damn, Ed.
Ed is a beutiful man, while Rose is not that good looking
Thanks again Migaku for sponsoring this video! Migaku is offering a 50% discount on their Lifetime subscription, along with an additional free month on Standard and Early Access subscriptions: https://migaku.com/CantoMando
I can confirm you that the discrete math course I took at UCLA (math 61) is just the repetition of the math I learned in 4th grade back in China.
if this is the level of a top 5th grader, it’s hard to imagine how smart those top students in tsinghua or peking uni
I like how the 5th grader uses logic for the last question, but in America they require us to “show your work” which is super annoying.
The mother's happiness standing behind there and seeing how her child do the work is the best thing
That child articulated, and illustrated like a professor. Fluid, clear, assured and confident. Dear goodness... I'm intimidated 😆.
QUICK CLARIFICATION on question 8 - this question was taken out of a Chinese school book and upon editing I realized it was completely lost in translation. In all three cases the moon should appear so the really question made no sense- SORRY GUYS!!!
I love that xian xian didn't bother with showing his working, just solved the questions with basic deductive skills lol
I think I saw the Mao portrait shed a tear of a proud parent at the end
The boy has a very deep & good knowledge of logic
‘Are You Smarter Than a Chinese 5th Grader?’   Already love the concept
I had friend in middle school who was from China and he said he was the worst student in his class so his parents sent him to the United States to live with his aunt and at our school he was a top student.😂
In China, there are a few kids like him in every class. Many students who don’t do well in their studies go to the United States to avoid competition.
انا فخورة في الطلاب الصينيين تفوقهم يُعطيني تحفيز كبير. وحلمي من الطفولة أن أُتابع دراستي الجامعة هناك في جامعة تسينغهوا وأتمنى أن يتحقق ذلك. أنا سأُنجز وسأكون بفخورة بنفسي أكثر من الآن. ما شاء الله عليهم الله يحفظهم ويزيد كل طلاب العلم ءكاء ويجعلهم سعيدين
Can we please talk about how cute Xian Xian is? His smile, curiosity, & humility 😍
Chinese people here. This knowledge is actually taught in extracurricular competition classes in primary school, but as an ordinary kid who has never attended those classes, there’s no way I can solve these problems. 🤣
people give Sheldon a break 😂 he actually did well, i've seen much worse after graduation
So the logical and memtal abilities of the 5th grader is INSANE ! as a 9th grader (india) yes the questions were really easy , BUT FOR A 5TH GRADER ?! hats off to the little man , je has a bright future !
engineer: learned to solve in steps and show his work kid: s o l v e.
Can you basically watch anime in English even if it doesn’t have the official subs yet that’s a selling point you’ve missed
Did you guys choose this setting for filming on purpose 😂
You got a wrong answer for 1/6 * 24 ÷ 64 (2/3+1/6) here how it should be :- 1/6 * 24 ÷ 64 (4/6 + 1/6) 1/6 * 24 ÷ 64 (5/6) 1/6 * 24 ÷ 64*5/6 4 ÷ 64 * 5/6 (4/64)*5/6 1/16*5/6 5/96   for more where ever you get (÷ x) it simply means (*1/x) just by replacing it clears confusion in order to not to get two answer
 @shashank-sp  Thank You. This solved my confusion and I confirmed with chatgpt. The answer is 5/96
That's no kid. That's an ambassador. May we pray for our souls.
 @shashank-sp  Exactly! I am so surprised that people do not know the elementary rules of mathematics. If there is a task, for example, 8:2x5 - this means that FIRST you divide 8 by 2, and only THEN multiply the obtained result by 5.  A farmer has 8 small potatoes and plants two in a hole, each such bush will then yield 5 potatoes. This is what a math problem literally means. You must NOT break the sequence of mathematical operations. The correct answer is 20! NOT the fraction 4/5 And only 5/96 👍is correct! NOT 3/40🤦
 @duckymomo7935  yeah but if we were learning real analysis and group theory back in elementary school then I would have already got the nobel prize by now lol
+1, the math I learned here in 6th grade is just grade 3 math in china but easier
 @YPalsson real analysis made me feel dumb lol. Fought like helll for a mere B bc I bombed the final.
 @YPalsson  real analysis without even knowing what a complex number is, what a real number is , what an integer is is crazy
And i know all the questions in MIT integration bee i studied at my time during prep of JEE examination 😭
Oh my God, Uni of Waterloo? That kid has more logic in his thinking, he could see the big picture, especially in the last question.
Being an iit graduate and someone who has looked at discrete mathematics course I can say what you said is a “load of bs” 😅
 @Neelinmact  i might exaggarated a bit but there is many stuff in that course that are what I learned in elementary school for the Olympic math competition (which many peers around me were preparing for). And I am a stanford graduate student rn btw
 @YPalsson  that’s a different thing , for ex when I wa preparing for IITJEE I have to learn things that were beyond the normal high school syllabus of mathematics and physics ,, some of which even reoccurred in master course , the thing is when you were preparing for olympiads you were preparing for something advanced so you have to learn and solve things that were advanced for the normal school or high school ,, however the whole course cannot be covered just by some preliminary knowledge ,, you have to learn advanced stuff in the higher course
Bro I just took discrete maths in my 1st semester and it's ahmmm not good to be honest
​ @YPalsson ​if you were someone that can win a Nobel prize you would study that by yourself from a book.
Can confirm that the first 2-3 years of my dual degree program at Lawrence Uni and WashU gave me flashbacks of high school in Indonesia.  Raise your hand if you've lost count of asking your friends "you guys were never taught this?"
 @firstlast-pt5pp :  No.  I had a discrete math 4+ decades ago in a course in college as part of my computer science with math emphasis degree.  Without looking it up, it was about math and formulas and problems about, basically, integers, if my 45ish year old memory of the class serves.   Looking it up for a more precise answer (Google):  Discrete math is about countable, distinct, and separate things (like integers, graphs, and logical statements), vs. things like continuous functions.  Google confirms this is useful for computer science today (which makes sense).   Discrete means "individually separate and distinct", BTW, and being on a computer, you could look that up as easily as me.
 @YPalsson :  In the US it depends a LOT on where you go to school.  My public schooling was decent in science and math, but A work in the public schools was more like C plus work in the catholic private school system in my city (re various catholic friends in that system -- I lived near a catholic private education complex with K-12 schools).  If they switched from expensive private catholic to public, suddenly the C students became mostly A students.   And we had better private schools in my city than that.  If you combined a great education AND great aptitude and good help from parents or a tutor when needed, then any intelligent kid could do VERY well.   I coasted the whole way through public school because it was too easy, and so boring.  In high school I actually had to take a book home and STUDY for ONE course, with an old school very hard teacher -- chemistry.   The rest -- I did my 90% of my "studying" during lunch hour.    It's kind of sad, really, but if you're not challenged, the vast majority of kids won't PUSH.  So I studied things like chess that interested me on my own. If I had found out about computer science before my senior year of high school ('77), I would have been motivated to study that hard.  MUCH of life is largely a string of accidents.
 @firstlast-pt5pp lmao!!!!!!!!! I have a same question about this term, I thought there’s only one term: MATH 😅
​@duckymomo7935  Well, it can get extremely hard and challenging, but an intro course at college is easy ofc and doesn't show all the aspects of discrete mathematics, things like graph theory, combinatorial optimization, non-linear recurrence relations in 2nd order+, number theory and much more, these topics when you study them at a grad level or even at math olympiads like IMO it can get really challenging and way harder than any math course at college
 @御坂栞 It seems that there is. I was in the fourth grade in 2000. At that time, there were or non-computations, which were used to lay the foundation for the learning of computer knowledge. But I haven‘t studied discrete mathematics, so I suspect that what he said is somewhat exaggerated.
bro I want to see if chinese schools taught math 51 can you take and tell me??
I’m 18 years old and I like to study in china math but the thing that making me hesitating is will i will be the older one on class no way I’m doing this so how did you study 4th grade in china and how was your experience
My Chinese group-mates didn’t even know how to solve 3x3 matrix in SJTU. (Shanghai) major: Aerospace engineering.
I thought discrete was to test what level people are at if you weren’t from the US
As a Singaporean, I can confirm math in USA is really easy.
You know ucla is a public school and it sucks, right?
 @duckymomo7935  Are you joking? Maybe you didn't go very hard in it. But it's way harder than calculus.
In the United States, we don't bother teaching students how to do anything but be inefficient calculators until college/university. It's really a shame.
 @gotsu21  UCLA has top 10 math department in the USA and is ranked top 20 among all US universities.
 @benjaminwiens7644  It depends on the type of brain... Chinese kids are too familiar with dicrete math at a young age so to them multivariable calculus might be harder. The only college math classes I found harder than what I learned in Chinese elementary/high school is Real Analysis and Topology.
 @ambrosianas7505  top 10 is mediocre and top 20 is the same playing field as community college. American public school education, especially math, is, sorry, a joke.
@  Well at least at UCLA you have world class mathematicians teaching there, but at community colleges the teachers don’t even know what they are talking about. Trust me, as a professional from Fortune 500, I can assure you UCLA is a big name to most employers and the degree is highly valued compared to average schools at a Fortune 500 firm like mine.
Yes, and my middle school entry exam was harder than my discrete math final lol.
My daughter is a nursing major and the math she learns in college is what she already knew in the 8th grade but surprisingly there are many students that still struggle with it. Nursing majors don’t really require any hard mathematics.
Discrete isn’t taught in America because it’s all focused on calculus for some stupid reason
​@gotsu21  If top 10 out of over 1000 US colleges is your definition of mediocre, then you may want to work on your math. Yes, US public school math is behind many other countries but it's top 10 colleges are all pretty elite in terms of global standards.
My mom was Peking top in 1991(I meant for her major)
Not necessarily only those from tsinghua but those from most top schools in China are also very competitive. It's insane. They are taught not just to memorise but to understand which is why it is amazing.
my history teacher got a bachelors and masters at peking, then a masters at harvard, then taught at harvard, then co-wrote the chinese textbook we use for our schools chinese curriculum 💀💀
 @ListerTube you are completely wrong. Gaokao prep is almost entirely memorization and trick methods, particularly in the language sections. Not sure what the curriculum at the actual universities is though
The young children are very far ahead of Western children but by the end of high school the standards in China aren't much higher. The Gaokao maths is probably around the difficulty of a high level year 12 math final in Europe or slightly higher, but definitely not the leagues ahead of Europeans this 5th grader is.
​ @notnotcharles3022 Gaokao and year 12 is the same temporal instance, no? So this kid is just a special case
 @coco88856  Either this kid is not some random student or Chinese education gets really far ahead of the west early then fails to keep momentum. Or maybe it's that the west doesn't bother much with geometry making the kid seem smarter
I mean this wasn’t like entirely hard tbh tho at 5th grade is kinda insane
The students of Tsinghua University are all monsters. Their memory, reaction ability and comprehension are all outstanding, which is even rarer in the college entrance examination province.
 @ListerTube it’s up to the student to learn and not memorize a lot of kids just don’t see the point in what they are learning and don’t take that much pride in being knowledgeable having gone through AP and honors classes then technically school and college it’s clear most people just want the paper and what you will actually retain is what you do on the job.
 @ListerTube you need to understand the logic behind it before you can remember it 😂
to add, children learn incredibly fast, with the right indoctrination they can reach great heights very fast, see 'x' year old music child prodigy. Then as you get older you rely on what you already leant, Hopefully mathematics lol
I'm 25% Chinese and I'm smart but I can only imagine how smart those people are..
Haikao university entrance exam is among the hardest exam of the world. And Chinese students have to pass it to go to university.
nope, not how that works. in china schools tend to cram high level learning into the first years of school, and then they balance out with the rest of the world.
 @GavinDeng and you are now average Asian kid in USA. Shame for your mummy 😂
Which is why they are able to create DeepSeek at far lower budget.
At the university levels I believe they are already inventors 😂.
 @GavinDeng  darn, PKU top students = overkill for any grad school here in the states LOL
Well top in Kansas is different in a population of over 1 BILLION lol…being the top anything would be god-tier. Top tailor could probably outfit royalty. Top cake maker would probably make you cry with a bite.   It’s like that when you’re competing with 1/7 of the human population lol 😂
​ @dukejohnson1956 you think memorization and rote memorization are the same, typical liberal western outlook towards learning. A computer doesnt perform it's task using its CPU alone, it requires it's RAM and ROM to augment its capabilities.  There is a reason most western countries in the anglosphere don't make it into the Top 10 of the PISA rankings despite being far wealthier than China.
@ I’ve literally attended classes in China. I’m oversimplifying their learning methodology but some of it particularly as it pertains to the English language is indeed just rote memorization. When you recognize that the gaokao is so important that it literally determines their entire future, it does become understandable why they would spend so much time focusing on tricks and patterns and rote memorization to get a good score. Rather, you and that other guy I argued with a while back seem to be taking my comment thr wrong way. I emphasized on numerous occasions that I don’t think the US education system is any better, in fact it’s quite poor and only getting worse. Seriously the younger generation right now is horrifically stupid in so many ways, they’re reading several years below grade level on average. I was just commenting that often at the university level the “gap” in education has leveled out because the theoretical teachings in Europe and top American institutions does surpass that of most other unis. Of course the average Chinese high schooler knows more than the average western highschooler, students in the west are encouraged to pursue extra curriculars, explore free time on weekends, participate in sports, etc. my friend 寒冬 tried to start playing soccer as a senior in highschool and got lit up by his parents and teachers because they said he needed to spend more time on studying. Even though he was already spending 10+ hours a day at school and 6+ hours a day at home studying. We had a sister school in middle school that would message us on WeChat on weekends as a language assignment in English to ask us what we were up to and we would respond in Chinese. We would often talk about some homework, hanging out with some friends, playing sports, and relaxing. Without fail the only thing they ever had time t do on the weekends was 6+ hours of homework. That’s why the youth suicide rates are so high amongst students there because they are under so much academic pressure. I’m not saying the US or European system is better or worse, but don’t try to lecture me on the differences between two educational systems that I am intimately familiar with. I don’t want to assume but I also will assume that you’ve never taken a 高考 prep course?
@ also, my initial comment and argument I had with that last fellow was literally just me saying that the SAT is ez as hell, but there’s a lot of absolute morons in the US who test poorly, but that doesn’t mean the SAT is a challenging test because it’s not. So if anything again I support your criticism of the us education system lol
yeah lil dude smarter than me and i’m almost in college 😂
All that is useless...  Originality is missing and that's why they are great at copying and very little original work. India and China are great ancient civilizations and did lot of great stuff in the past but now they mostly do the copying, of course China is far better than India now but both of these great nations are missing their originality;
That’s why DeepSeek can do what it did with top Chinese graduates
Smart means nothing- you become smart with consistency and a competitive system. They just don't limit themselves to feelings, which plagues the western systems as they ADAPT to a broken youth, not the other way around like in my homeland Lithuania or China
 @notnotcharles3022  Gaokao questions are designed to weed out the unprepared.  If they just test the student's knowledge, then most will pass.  But with the limited amount of open spots available, they have to make it much more difficult than it has to be just to make sure not everyone get in.
 @wzqi6864  They will make their employers very happy in the future.
⁠and i bet he is succesful at a sport and plays an instrument😂
showing working is literally to show the logic/method you used to arrive at your answer, except showing working is specifically the mathematical method.
you could write out what the 5th grader said and you would still get full credit though
it is showing your work, they’re practically just using first order logic apply some additional definitions and theorems without having to actually write a proof for it
everyone can use logic when they are taught about logic , The boy already knew how to solve the problem that's why he solved it quickly give him a new problem which he never solved then see what happens .
OTOH, you want someone who knows WHAT THEY ARE DOING (and be able to demonstrate the proper PROCESS), not guessing and perhaps getting lucky re intuition.  The Chinese kid could EXPLAIN and show his logic and process, which proved it wasn't just luck, which is FINE, IMO.   Plus if you make a small error and get the wrong answer but know the process and have the right idea down, you can earn the majority of the credit for the problem, by showing your work.   WHY should this be a problem?
 @varadchougule6955 :  That's a valid point.  Like for the rabbits / chickens problem, the engineer (like me) knows how to combine equations algebraically, and solve for N unknown variables with N known linear equations. So he can solve ANY such problem with the process (unless he makes a mistake).   Now, can the 5th grader do that?  I suspect he CAN if he has to, but we'd have to be shown to know.   Now, could he do the last problem the hard way?  I have no idea.  I didn't even know how to properly set it up (for the hard, western way), I must confess.
 @rogergeyer9851  Rabbit/chicken problem is using Assumption Method (or the Supposition Method).  It's a common Maths problem for Primary school kids in Singapore too.
There’s no way to compare American learners to Chinese learners. The latter are far above the caliber of MOST American students. Having taught English in both the U.S. and China, I can clearly see a yin and a yang between them.
Shouldn't the last answer be 10pi because perimeter of rectangle made will be equal to length of circumference which is 2pi(10/2)
 @alphachad69  correct so if r doesnt = to 1 then the circumference is not 2pi
 @alphachad69  The solution basically 2*pi*r in this case: 2*pi*5=10*pi. | If you If now you take those 2 halves of the circle and divide them into n slices and then put them like in the video it will be a rectangle, but a rectangle isn't just 2 horizontal parallel sides (a), but it has 2 vertical sides. 1 on the right and 1 on the left. Now how long are these, well since we used slices with r=5 then the vertical sides (b) are 5 long. and since there are two of them it'll be 5+5=10! So now we have 10*pi+ (the 2 sides b) = 10*pi+5*5= 10*pi +10, from this we can deduct that the circumference of the circle is 10 longer than before.  Hope this helps!
My class graded me based on how how close I got to the answer based on my work. So if I added something when I was supposed track my question would still receive partial credit for everything else!
every school needs to show their working. this quiz doesnt need working to get points. so he used logic
same in canada, in a 3 point question 1 point is the answer 2 is the work (0/2 if u dont use the technique the teacher taught)
he's definitely just seen that problem before lol nothing special when you do hundreds of types of problems hundreds of times. It was probably the graduates first time (at least in years) since he had to solve such a problem, it's not really a matter of intelligence or education style lol.
I think you completely misunderstand if you think that there's a massive difference between what the child did and the Engineer. What the engineer did, allows anyone, regardless of intellect, to be able to solve that question. What the child did, requires a pretty strong understanding of logic that isn't just bound to math, what he did has more to do with pattern recognition and overall intellect. It's not something you can just teach someone, especially at his age. In fact, learning math and showing your solution can actually HELP you develop the type of logic and intellect required to solve something like he did.   I'm all for critiquing schools in how they teach, using the last decade or two of scientific research, we can clearly tell that current curriculums are very un-optimised for the human brain. But this partuclar instance is not something that is the fault of the school, as either it's something you're genetically inclined for, or you simply have done a lot of logical training (such as math, certain games, chemistry/physics, puzzles and so on).   What you definitely can critique modern school for though is how we have (at least in the western world) moved away from geometry as a teaching tool. If you go back into older mathmatics, geometry was the #1 methods to discuss and teach math. Precisely because it gives the learner a way to make numbers more tangible. This however doesn't remove the need to "show your work", it simply is just a better way to practice/learn. The reason we moved away from geometry is because the math got too complex to be expressed through geometry but for 95% of the world they will never need that level of math anyway.
The answer 10 didn't even answer what the question asked. Badly framed question.
ironically, it's public schools in China that require to show a most strict procedure of 'work' smh....
and the boy's thinking is the work, if you can state your logic soundly then full marks! Well, you probably have never been in a math asian class, where there are proof based geometry, where every logic gaps is punished.
Using logic and “showing your work” aren’t contradictory. It would just be writing down everything that the 5th grader thought in his mind.
You have to do that in Hong Kong too, the equation itself often worth more points than the answer, especially when it's a long one with 10 points, the answer usually only worth 1 point.
I grew up in China and we HAVE TO show working at all times. The marking is a lot more harsh. I think the kids knew this was not an exam so he didn’t, but if it was an exam he would definitely write down he’s thinking process.
its actually better to use logic while still focusing on how to apply that logic. there is no way you could use that kind of logic that the kid used in a different and harder problem without knowing well how to apply it into formulas
Its kind of annoying that she's standing right there, too much of a control freak.
No. Studying that much at that age is not only unnecessary but also harmful in the wrong run.
@ No you're right she's totally not a full-on tiger mom.  Standing within the kid's eyesight for the whole duration of the video tells me she's overbearing. It's unnecessary, he's at least 11, not a baby. The only moments she's not intrusive are probably when he goes to the bathroom, sleeping or in class.
 @kairos_fluent  or maybe she just wants to watch her child do this???
@ Watch the video on youtube then, stay out of the video yourself.
 @kairos_fluent  ?? why wouldnt she watch her son doing a video
Like bro never got this many like on any comment like thx to all 😊
 @kairos_fluent It's called being supportive. Just say you're jealous cause you didnt have parents or they didnt show up for you, im sorry about that
 @Carlos-ye6pd  this video seeems likes she supportive but considering the child’s schedule its clear school is above health, he will be more fixed then a thinker like western kids, not saying he doesn’t have fun doing study’s but im sure most kids hate it. Im not sure if this is for all children but again he’s 11 if his mom is letting him over work like that at a young age its not very supportive, school isn’t  important till hs (unless of course your just gaming and watch youtube videos you still need something that involves thinking do your brain doesn’t rot). Point is as long as hes making friends and doing normal kid stuff because kids need it.
 @randomname8220  damn you knew everything about their whole life from a 20-minute video
​​ @kairos_fluent I agree with you, for sure. Its fine she is there, but should have been off the camera angle. The guys should have though of that and ask her to stand in a different spot.
 @kairos_fluent  she could be just worried for her kid or maybe supporting  pretty sure some moms would stand out of the exam hall just to see if their kids are nervous. Im not sure
​@kairos_fluent  it's not annoying at all. She's simply supporting and making sure her child is okay during this video.
 @kairos_fluent  gang hes in 5th grade at someone she barley knows house dog a video shes trying to look over her child that she birthed.
 @NRae7991 If I was her, I would watch my 11 yr old no matter if he’s gifted or not.
 @fineline3405 that kid and his peers are China’s future. Together they will make great developments in nuclear, pharmaceuticals, engineering and space technology etc.  Even more development than China has accomplished now
i was just learning how to multiply fractions and divide fractions in 6th grade
I was learning pigeonhole principle, mean, median, mode, bar method, etc in grade 5 when I was taking advanced classes💀 (this is actually real, we take advance classes on Sundays. One of my best friends is there btw. These topics are basic for us do don't act like i'm Einstein.)
 @JamielJohnEspino  I was learning BODMAS an Australian version of BIMDAS from America I’m not quite sure if it’s BIMDAS but uh yeah.
I was learning Pythagorean Theorem in 7th Grade ;-; (Actually S1 For UK but idk how to convert so)
I learned fractions in grade 2 and leaning algebra in class 6
Nah bro one of my chinese friends already knew about inverse square laws in 5th grade☠️☠️☠️    Jesus loves you!❤✝️Repent and God bless
I teach math at an american university and I have to teach the students fractions. They don't know it. I don't think anyone should be allowed into a university if they can't do elementary school level math.
Nah bro, that's just how he's taught, every Asian kid is taught that way, and that what sucks. About it, they give you the answer but they don't explain to you, show the solutions to you even if you are a kid, and when it comes to the exams, that's the hell starts to happen
 @prestoCreams are you Chinese? I received almost all my education in China, and all the teachers I met taught very well, and explained all the details. Otherwise how can you pass the exams?
​ @prestoCreams  still the rote memorization stereotyping of Chinese students huh? Having experienced education in both China and western country I can tell you that China education places a lot of emphasis on understanding for the STEM subjects.
Also for the question with a bunch of multiplication and dvision, the answer is 5/96 not 3/40
 @evanhsieh Yeah, I was gonna say… I guess it’s good Sheldon failed the last question because that means the 5th grader would have still won even counting the errors
Technically, the moon does not appear during a solar eclipse. You are seeing a silhouette of a moon.
 @tichu7  Idk if this is a reference to a song or whatever but if you are being legit, in a solar eclipse the moon is still present it’s just not illuminated by the sun
 @mrbagginz5963  Exactly. It doesn't appear.  We know it's there because of the absense of light, not because of the presence of it.
Last Circle question was also poorly translated. Should be phased 'how much long will the sides of the rectangle be compared to the circumference of the circle' to be more specific. 😅
 @mrbagginz5963  the question isn't whether it's there, it's whether it appears.
 @tichu7  The silhouette or outer edge of the moon is slightly illuminated, as well as covering the sun, so if you see the silhouette you can justify that it appears
Did you guys choose this setting for filming on purpose 😂
 @evanhsieh  The confusion here is expressions of implied multiplication like 5x are given higher precedence and are often presumed to be one expression. Using that they are correct. Poor notation imo.
@mrbagginz5963  maybe we disagree over the definition of "appears". To me, the word pertains to the object's visibility. Seeing a silhouette of an object is not seeing an appearance of that object. I didn't think even the edge of the moon is visible as the sun several magnitudes brighter, but if you say it is, then sure.
 @tichu7  Sure, that’s true but the definition says it means visible or noticeable, so I guess we are both right
 @evanhsieh  Yeah I also calculated it and the answer is 5/96!
​ @tichu7 I thought solar eclipse because during rhe eclipse for the people currently on the opposite hemisphere there is no moon  logically also lunar was the best option until I searched and realised that due to scattering of light the moon is reflected due to radiation from earth,my uneducated aah realised then what full moon day really is😂🥲
@kazukawasaki97  that's an interesting interpretation. But with that logic, half of the earth can /always/ claim that the moon does not appear, regardless of eclipse or not.
@tichu7  but its not night,like in eclipse the opposite has no moon and has night
 @kazukawasaki97  The question is specifically asking "during a solar eclipse", so the implication is "for the observers of the solar eclipse". That means it is daytime.
 @tichu7  how does it not appear when it is literally in front of the sun?
@sportsonwheelss  By now, it has become apparent to me that some people think of "appear" to mean it exists. I take it to mean it is visible. So yes, the moon does not appear because it is not visible. I hope that clears up my train of thought.
The last question could also be clarified more by saying that it’s the circumference that you’re asking instead of how long the rectangle is vs how long the circle is. How long could also be diameter.
@ maybe that why there are two different words.  Visible is not the same as. appear.  Hello.
Glad to hear that, actually.  I know a little casual astronomy including what the types of eclipses are, and that answer made NO sense to me (without more specific qualifiers which they didn't give, re any detail).    That takes away from the questioner, not the kid, BTW.
 @evanhsieh yeah that’s why I was confused because I’ve seen a lunar eclipse before
 @evanhsieh  Dude I was about say like they got 3/40 while I got 5/96 like something was not right here
thank you! i was wondering how that question made sense lol
 @tichu7  My interpretation is different 😆 my answer is lunar eclipse, because the Moon is already there, you always can see it, so it din't just "appear". But in Solar eclipse, you can't see the moon before the eclipse, but when it appear in front of the Sun, the eclipse happenend.  Ok i am overthinking, but bcos the question is weird!
​ @bubbasanches4591  u could have done that and ended up into mit cuz u think it's too easy ?
 @bubbasanches4591 lol, ironically you are just paroting an old trope because you lack yourself lack reasoning that last one had nothing to do with memorization.
Teachers always told me to "show your working" and I was like "what working?"
this is quite an inaccurate stereotype. study pattern is not really related to politics
 @NinaXiao-p3v  fax. There are plenty of other countries that fosters patriotism like china, USA
 @NinaXiao-p3v Yeah, I was gonna say, so many people make the wrong assumptions about Mao. My mum grew up during the cultural revolution - the schools were shut down and my mum was sent to work on the farms when she was very young (I think younger than 10). People were made to abandon study in favour of the ‘revolution’. There was public book burnings. My grandparents were uni professors and were sent to the farms too I’m pretty sure, it was not a good time to be an academic during those days.
 @ElectricPansies  When do people say they like mao?? I thought everyone knew it was really bad
@Twoopoint0-h4b Lol no. Mao is the most revered figure in Chinese history. Even considering all of his mistakes and faults, without him there would be no modern China.
@ His policies were responsible for a vast number of deaths, with estimates ranging from 40 to 80 million victims of starvation, persecution, prison labour, and mass executions, and his regime has been described as totalitarian.
​ @ElectricPansies  Cultural revolution is not just Mao but more about the political system, which is still affecting people up to this day. The country had bad influence under his leadership but also good ones earlier in the years. So there is no personal feelings i have towards him, if I have, it is towards the system.
 @dalloslevente  that's like asking Americans "do you like the founding fathers". most people have complex opinions on Mao, but appreciate him for founding the country and ending the century of humiliation
@Twoopoint0-h4b America worships the founding Fathers. Which makes Mao look like a saint
I believe most families don’t hang it in their house, plus no special feeling to him.
Exactly     Jesus loves you!❤✝️Repent and God bless
Chinese education almost every Chinese in his age can reach this level(math)(or grade6
 @NerdZEY  neverrr. Don’t ever compare someone good at maths with stupid programmers
This isn't a test of who is smarter though, it's a test on understanding of certain material and the problems were handpicked for the kid. This video would feel less like clickbait if the problems were vector addition and calculus.
 @AL-pv2bq it’s a test on who is smarter he’s better at math then him that means he’s smarter
@That_droper no? It just demonstrates how well you know the material. Being smart in one subject doesn’t automatically make you a genius as being not smart in a subject doesn’t make you dumb.
LOL     Jesus loves you!❤✝️Repent and God bless
 @Themysterypersonthelengend  ...can you say that again but in english this time?
no because in Poland we had a literal TV show called “Are you smarter than a 6th grader” and there were smart kids answering some fckd up questions 😂
 @That_droper being smarter means being better at everything including creativity and different kinds of intelligence
woahh its sad how the worst students there come out to be top somewhere else, they aren't really bad just in a wrong competition, but it does make them feel useless or not fitting into the society
man u dont even have to convince anyone I'm in hs and I barely do my work yet I'm in top 5 because I "barely" do my work whereas my classmates do not even do their work
yeah and its the opposite case for me, I was the top student in my middle school and when we went back to China, I was only in the middle of the class while doing my best.
 @invictorylane  nah it's cause america's grade inflation is wildly high to make every kid feel better, like how most students expect 100 for good work while china and india rarely gives out 100s
​ @invictorylane The thing is it's like you go to the NFL and they cut you and bring you to a circus league
I dont bro i guess maybe the prodigy ones are like homeschooled or stuff in us i guess? (not from us)
Thats pretty much the case for chinese kids. I was just the middle of the pack in my H.S but when i came to the US my math and science classes were way abead of the american kids. No doubt about that!
 @invictorylane  Maybe the worst students in China aren't good. Maybe the best/average students in America are just bad.😂
legit, i was considered the lowest grade student in indonesia but once i moved the the u.s in my middle school years, i got all A's and even got awards for it
 @invictorylane  OR, it's because where he turns out to be top everyone else is just that much worse 🤣
Many Chinese students go to a the US for this reason.
 @invictorylane lol. Nothing remotely close to what you are saying. This is all about entering to the ivy league university in China.   If they cannot compete with the smart students in china, their parents sent their kids overseas. (Much easier, better grades and scores are also accepted in china ivy league universities)
When I moved to the US at 7 from VN, this is back in ‘93. I was running laps around Americans in math class and I missed half the school year in VN due to appointments for immigration.
 @Villosa64 bro what’s ur gpa bc the ppl top 5 in my school all had 4 or higher weighted gpa and were all 1400+ sat scorers theres no way they did that w/o hella studying
@ GPA does not matter literally because all schools may have the same course but it does not mean theyre all the same rigor, my gpa is about 4.4
This is a copy and paste comment I've seen this a million times lol
​ @Villosa64  Sounds like what happened to me in university First semester I was lost, but I figured out how everything worked in the second one and I started doing better, while people slowly gave up Second year, everyone got jobs and other stuff to do instead of studying, but my bare minimum got me into top ~70 students Third year "Oh my god, I'm doing so bad" while having 3.3 GPA LOL
It's the same even within the same city. One student at my school didn't do well in class and was later assigned to a lower tier secondary school. He became one of the top students there.
the same as my daughter. the last in China ,the top in Germany. But only in math.
​@Bruh11235ngl in my class, for most tests we cheer when we pass, getting 70-80% is really good already
and they come and buy million dollar homes for cash and u wonder why you cant buy a home
In reality there are many like him, that is the standard. In each country it is studied at one level or another and even chemistry in Spain is taught more advanced than in the United States, the educational system says a lot. The majority are not allowed to go to the United States, not everyone has money, those are a few.
cap…the best student all go to USA..otherwise if China really got that many of smart people why China isn’t the best country but USA?
 @judith.1gb  bruhh 😐education is not the only factor nvm u must be what they call karen
Also to get a job.  No jobs in China or they are totally grueling work hours.
​@paula5753no there arent. just because thats the standard curriculum dosent mean theyre all like that.
 @judith.1gb  nope....rich students go to USA......Very few families can afford it....Also,a harsh fact is that having smart people or not isn't the decisive factor in economic development....
​@paula5753and education at most places the syllabus is more advanced than the us. the pcm im learning now in 11th and 12th for engineering is taught in many unergraduate and even in some post even in many top colleges
 @nauti31210  if you can't afford a home or get a job, then it's either your fault or your government's fault for resource mismanagement🤷‍♀
​ @nauti31210 Well, you guys insist that meritocracy is the most fair system of wealth distribution, so don't complain, I guess? 😂
That is why you guys have Trump the orange as your president lol
 @nauti31210 oh yeah blame Chinese students rather than the domestic millionaire and billionaires is USA 🙄
that is just not true, I live in china I know better. But there are people that are like what you said.
It's just that average American primary and secondary students are dvmb
 @mohit8475  nah bro education is the most important part for countries think about why world's top techs are all from US chi1na's education system is just way too cruel
@3zE_HenyǚLang  انا فتاة يا اخي. ولكن لا بأس💪🏻بالتوفيق لنا جميعا. وقناتك رائعة بالتوفيق لك فيها
 @ChatsWithPastorSean32thsubscri  imagine calling some random 12 year old “good looking”.  Like that’s just weird to me.
 @KalecgosMagic  Dawg, do you go up to random children and call them good looking”
@gamergang2686 As a matter of fact, yes 😂😂😂 I work with children everyday. It depends on the context. As long as it's appropriate, it's ok. No one has ever told me I'm being inappropriate. Why do ppl on the internet take wholesome things & put them in inappropriate contexts. It's just like telling someone from the opposite gender that they're good looking. It's a genuine compliment
 @KalecgosMagic  Yes, because you’re a teacher and you see them everyday. I challenge any man to go up to some random kid and call them pretty/good looking. It just sounds weird.
@gamergang2686It’s probably just the wording.  It’s like when people called you handsome or cute when you younger. Usually like someone your parents knew or something.  It’s technically the same as good looking but said differently.
Sunset3052 is yes it sounds weird to call a 12 year old handsome
She knows she is but is gonna write something in a panic calling me stupid
​@gamergang2686 Stop fighting the wall, you're even weirder for thinking it's somehow inappropriate lol, if nobody ever told you that you looked good or were handsome when you were a kid it's for a reason lol.
Singapore Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) will have 1 or 2 logic  questions to separate the students
nah i had to do that rabbit probleem in class 6
 @ImmortalSouls-th10s it was a little bit easier if i remember but still same logic
Asian here, and since I took a HEFTY of those classes, my younger self would actually be able to solve it, but that kid being 5th grade with all that knowledge is both impressive and terrifying. Like the amount of academic knowledge you have to learn while still being 11 is a lot.
​​​ @ImmortalSouls-th10s I also got that Rabbit problem in my elementary school in Indonesia, but the other problems I did not
At least when Xian Xian explained the last question i understood straight away but the guy from Canada didn’t have clue even after XX explained.
not other questions, but the math questions.   different places in china have different education system.(I'm from Shanghai
​ @ImmortalSouls-th10s  i did it in year 4 in a uk school
Am I not Chinese, or what? We definitely learned the rabbit-chicken problem and others, except for the last circle problem and the concept of light speed, in primary school.
@ For someone like me who completed primary school in Shenzhen, neither I nor the average kids around me could solve these problems during our primary school years.I don’t know how advanced the primary education level is in your area.
Yeah, I remember some of these questions are "competitive quiz" level for elementary grade, which require me to memorize the "trick" to solve the given questions rapidly. Too bad I'm not the brightest compared to other kids in competition back then.
I live in Germany but I had the exact same thought. From 5th to 12th grade my school gave us an option to solve a kangaroo of mathematics test and from what I remember the questions where exactly like that
20:12 actually after Xianxian get into middle school and high school, he'll probably use the same methods like Sheldon. Xianxian used elementary school competition math here, being the top student of his class, there's no way he dont participate in math competitions (things like Mathematical Olympiad), where u solve problems with very limited tools, therefore u have to rely on logic, mechanisms and tricks.  In the end when we finish college education, we all solve problems like Sheldon, math becomes boring then unless u do research with the newest tools. Math is always more interesting when u feel your tools are limited for the problem
​ @zeflute4586  - primary school is the most important time to learn to think  - once they got thinking skills the rest is incentive and ambition
Yeah I don't think I could solve any of the math problems, except for the easiest ones.  I thought Sheldon did well actually lol
 @firstlast-pt5pp  Giving kids puzzles and making them problem solve is brilliant, but not to this extreme. Theres more to life than olympiad math problems, based on this schedule its impossible for the kid to try any sports, play games or hang out with other kids his age. At the very least I hope his parents and tutors are making him think about these problems so he does some problem solving instead of just spoon feeding him information on how to solve them but I doubt thats the case.
 @Milos-mk9pb  - maths is just a platform for learning/training to think - similar to young athletes train to be better athletes
Yeah, I was actually much better at Math when I was younger and had to practice it every day at school. With age, you don’t necessarily automatically get better at everything 😅
Exactly     Jesus loves you!❤✝️Repent and God bless
The kid can solve in steps too, but for the competition didn't require any of that. It's just needed the answer, so he did it all in his head.
The engineer actual ends up being smarter in the long run as he has a core understanding of the why.  This is why the US has better science
@mattk8810  the engineer literally tells you that 5th graders in the US, let alone high schoolers, would struggle with that.
 @mattk8810  i mean the kid (not even in middle school) probably knows how but its not required in the competition so he just did it logically. also in other countries they need to show their work too so why is the US better? the university he went to was canadian.
 @mattk8810  but the kid literally understood the core of the questions though. The circle to the rectangle perimeter increase, the kid used his brain and got it immediately, while the engineer couldn't get it and wasted a lot of time trying to apply formulas
 @mattk8810 US method isn’t that smart obviously. The engineer wasted a lot of time solving formula to a simple question. You can notice from most questions that the answer will certainly be countable numbers only, especially in Asian elementary schools they don’t usually do more advanced than solving fractions and answers won’t be in decimal points. In my opinion these types of questions really can determine one’s intelligence because you don’t need that much background knowledge or memorizing formulas to win the competition. I also have direct experience with this type of math exam. People aren’t always become engineers/mathematicians and I become a lawyer. People like me grow up then don’t need to memorize maths formulas or solve advanced math problems . Intelligence and problem-solving skills though remain. I also personally outperformed my peers who have become economists, etc. professions that requires more maths. They are too focused on formula while answers are at our arms length.
12:08 Sheldon being that meme with the calculations around his head. 😂 Don’t know how that kid answered so fast, maybe he understood the answer but had to work way less hard to get it.
 @mattk8810  But the kid also explained his answer though? And the engineer understood it
​ @wdgosling However, I don’t think you’ve fully grasped one key point: these classic types of questions have been encountered repeatedly and taught extensively. In China, if we truly want to assess someone’s innovative thinking and their understanding of underlying logic, we must create a problem that has never existed before in the world.
 @mattk8810 the kid literally explained the "why" at the end to the mechanical engineer. i'm sure he could've come to the same conclusion as the kid given enough time as well, but it's your education system that taught the mechanical engineer to resort straight to solving algebraically instead of thinking about the question for a minute, which he absolutely has the capacity to do
17:14 when sheldon was talking about sin 30, i already knew he was thinking too deep for this question lol. Then talking about how to figure out A when it was just the radius... hahaha his brain was fried
in Chinese we call it a "mental thinking" which is how different a person approaches an answer or just its unique way of thinking. (thinking outside the box)
WATERLOO MENTIONED!!! i got accepted for chemical engineering and will being going there!
Had a lot of fun filming this one. Want to highlight a couple points: - was really fascinating to see the difference in ways of thinking. I look back and almost overcomplicated everything, and it's interesting to see that my brain went straight to formulas while that kid had a more simple approach. I think that way of thinking really was etched into me in University and I probably would have just thought about the problem from a non formulaic angle prior to engineering school 🤔 no way is right or wrong - it's just interesting to see how university influenced me to go straight to one default way of looking at problems.   2) btw let's appreciate how impressive that kid was. I don't think I would have solved it with the way I was going. I took 10 minutes to think of that last question and he went to go hang out with his mom and sister in the back 😂😂😂
Fun Fact: The Final question is the question that led to the invention of calculus. Greeks trying to understand circles and their properties led to the discovery of concepts like imaginary numbers, and that started a chain of discoveries that would end up with calculus.
I love they are taught the foundations of maths and work anything with this principles. True understanding and a powerful tool.
Last question everyone got wrong.. "how much longer will the rectangle be from the circe?" Does not ask about the PERIMETER of the rectangle. Asks about the length. The length of the rectangle as drawn is the long side, The "diameter" of the circle will serve as its length. Circle "length" is 10. Rectangle length is half the perimeter of the circle, which is (2 * pi * r) / 2, or 5 * pi. So the rectangle is 5 * pi (rectangle length) / 10 (circle "length"), or pi/2 times longer than the circle.
18:20 That is actually taught in middle school. You don't realize how much basic knowledge you have forgotten until you see it again in elementary or middle school textbooks.
Sheldon you are so good with kids and such a great sport!  That kid is so bright and gracious too! Smart and impeccable manners! He is very smart but was so humble when he won- he was so gracious and he looked like he was about to cry when they handed him the 100 red pocket. Aww  😊
not me feeling proud of myself that i understood the kid's explanation for the last question after not even being able to solve it myself at first when i tried. but it was an amazing way to look at that question, he's a genius!!
1/6 x 24 /64 (2/3 +1/6) = 5/96 I dont think any of you in the video smart.
Sheldon wasn't going to save the money until heard the kid say it😂😂😂
Study in a high ranking university ❌ Study in China elementary school✅
Chinese education is tough man, I went to a school in china for a year and literally almost failed, another thing that makes it extremely hard, is the language, speaking it is easy, but writing and reading are hard af🙏😭
Just like Sheldon, I went straight to algebra when solving the chickens and rabbits. I am in no way a STEM girl, but I have to say I love algebra so much because it’s really applicable in my life. I’m so glad I learned it. That being said, if I were the boy’s age, there’s no way I would apply algebra to the questions because I wouldn’t have understood how to apply it back then, and I’d probably try to guess the answer by counting the possibilities manually, so the way the boy used his logic for the question is totally mindblowing.
sheldon did very well. that kid is top of his class, which means he does a lot of math olympiad questions, which are questions like the ones we saw. the boy is well trained.
When you view things at the right angle, things are damn easy.   You look it the wrong way, you are dealing with rocket science 🤣
You have gained my respect for graduating from Waterloo and living to tell the tale
I'm not Chinese but I did use this approach with the rabbit and chicken problem. When I saw the way the older guy solved it, I immediately chuckled because that was the way I was also taught in American schools (more systematic/formulaic approach). However, solving these problems by thinking it in your head makes it a more fun mental challenge.
That's how someone would think with very limited math tools (no equations etc.). That's how I did things before but felt like it was "cheating" because all the answers were so thorough and looked much more rigorous so I gave up on it and forgot with time lol. It's so much easier to just bruteforce everything with equations anyway.
Maths grad here and can confirm that when I did maths questions it was very flowchart/algorithm based. I’d solve problems a set way that was logical and precise. But my Chinese friends who are educated in maths in China would always think outside the box, talking through the problem and drawing a few graphs to support them. And they would get to the answer so much faster than I would.
​ @Feathertail2205 solved it with my head.  10 rabbits = 40 reduce the amount until you can fill all chickens
In the old days in the US, it was also known as thinking, lol. Before the restructuring of the school programs.
The kid's approach and thought process to the problem was impressive.  On the other hand, the adult's approach to use proper equation to solve the problem is also important
We are taught formulas because they are fair and universal. They can be applied to chicken heads or rocket parts. Formulas are just a way of writing down the logic. I am sure that if you were alone, and had time to think without social pressure, you would have done it. My university is ranked below yours and I had no problem even after graduating 9 years ago, stop making Waterloo look bad 😂 you'll drag down their ranking😉
No way you passed calculus without being able to solve the last one.
Formulas are fine. They're generic ways to solve problems.  Sure you can apply other techniques like that chicken and rabbit problem. But, that's just another technique (or formula) that's less generic than expressing it as a simultaneous equation.  With the minimum perimeter/area question, I knew it'd be a circle because that's why many things naturally form spheres in life (e.g. water droplets minimizing surface area), but I would have double checked my intuition by writing out all the areas as well.  With the circle question, which was terribly worded, using formulas would have done the same thing once you recognize that the length of the rectangle is half the circumference. The kid was familiar with the concept of slicing a circle into a rectangle (often seen in deriving the area of a circle assuming you know the diameter) so he was able to use that to intuitively answer it.  Intuitive shortcuts are cool but they're specialized at solving a particular type of question. What's impressive from the kid is that he's familiar with all these shortcuts and was able to apply it all within seconds in his head.
 @Nil-js4bf  It took me two seconds on that circle question. The others I'd be solving through equations.
Same here.  But unless you're some kind of genius or specialist in the subject, I think 99% of westerners would go straight to the PROCESS they learned in school.  The fact that the kid had the completely different approach means he was TAUGHT that and likely DRILLED in that, to be able to handle it so naturally / easily.   Just my opinion, of course.   What we don't know is, is this kid fairly normal in China, or is he a prodigy?  If he's a prodigy I feel better -- we had some scary smart kids in ordinary public school in math and science -- they were just pretty rare.
​ @Nil-js4bf Exactly, the child's question was more a type of memorization of concepts, but analyzing and deducing the answer is more complex than that, hence the child's ease and speed in answering
Ngl trying to come up with a general solution on the spot is much harder than answering it conceptually. Too bad you’ve broken up your pieces into odd numbers😂if you’ve broken them up in even pieces, you can avoid the “X” and the answer will be super obvious.
@Chun350  Not exactly. It's a very long process that found it's origins in tbe Greeks as I said. Basically the. Trying to understand concepts like imaginary numbers is what snowballed into full blown calculus.
Translations and continuation of science is not a weird thing, natural science is always about test until it reaches law status; and then newtonian but at plank length and black hole scope quantum mechanics takes over. So yeah im not gonna spoil the tl section from the light novel then
The other spectrum is social science, human related stuff is rarely a set stone
 @lalitaditya3779  Newton literally introduced main principles of calculus in his book “The Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy”.
yes, it is the idea of integration, but i dont they solve the final question correctly.
Greek mathematics was primarily geometry and trigonometry. They rarely produced proofs and didn't even understand concepts like zero.  Imaginary numbers and calculus came 1500-2000 years later.
Another fun fact: all you're saying is geometry led to calculus. Duh. Every ancient culture had geometry😂It's the most basic of all maths, besides arithmetic.
@abstract5249  But only Europe really made the connection into calculus. What we see here is the direct lineage of modern calculus. While other cultures and nations pioneered the mathematical field in their own ways, and attributed to Europe's own development, it was European academia that pushed to create the field we call calculus, and that push started with this question and the implications thereof.
​@ That's a non sequitur. You specifically mentioned Greece and calculus, not Greece and Europe. Plenty of other stuff outside of Greece also led to the development of calculus in Europe: the zero, the decimal system, Arabic numerals, the decimal fraction, the "Father of Modern Optics" (or rather, his influence on science, which in turn influenced mathematics). It sounds like you're moving the goal posts to frame Greece alone as the progenitor of mathematics in Europe.
@abstract5249  My previous reply literally contradicts everything you just said. The initial post was a fun fact. This problem of imaginary numbers and circles led to calculus. In my reply, consider it an addendum, I addressed other outside influence, but specified this was the direct lineage of calculus as we know it, which is accurate. Almost any course on the development of calculus will address this as it's European origin. Geometric proofs would lead to the concept of imaginary numbers which would lead to calculus. This is objectively true. Your argument is nothing more than a what-aboutism.
 @zekeolopwi6642  And the 360 degree system, invented by the Babylonians and adopted by the Greeks, also led to geometry as we know it, which would eventually lead to calculus. This is objectively true.  You said nothing about Europe. Not initially. Perhaps you were trying to signal it all along, but because no one understood your intent, you had to say it in a more direct manner. "Ooh, look at the Greeks and Europe! Aren't we so superior?"
The last one kind of demonstrates the area for a circle being 𝜋𝑟2
Yeah poorly worded question. I personally thought it meant how much longer in distance, which would be 5pi-10 =5.708 units longer. Kinda enraged me lol
Dude i started quesrioning my education, i was like why cant i understand the question, longer in which terms, someone above solved it as how much more the area will be. And i was like thats not what it means by longer
That wouldn’t be a rectangle tho right? You need to account for the width when “building the rectangle”. You could technically take a negligible piece so the length of the rectangle would be a little less than 5 pi.
If we were talking about the length of the rectangle, then it would be equal. It's the width that includes the diameter. But he did specifically clarify that when asked about the circumference vs perimeter.
idk why the engineer guy took so long,but you can literally see the thing,the part I think schools are failing is that they don't make children logical,they don't get the essence of reasoning
 @kazukawasaki97  exactly no one teaches where the heck the formula of area of a circle came from. its just remember the formula ask no more
 @shadowyt376  I'm not sure where you are from but I'm from New Zealand and in my school they emphasize on teaching where how the formulas are derived rather than giving you the formula.
For that question I still don't get it. When each piece is cut won't the ends be curved like a pizza slice? So how do they form a rectangle when put together? I think im missing something?!
 @albertchen247  if you make the slices of pizza thinner and thinner and put it together but upsides it forms a rectangle and if you were to cut it infinitely then it would make a perfect rectangle
@dawagurung1097  oh ok so as no. Of pieces approaches infinity then the shape becomes a perfect rectangle. However even if it were only cut in 4 slices, the perimeter would still be the same.corrcet
 @dawagurung1097  what if you only cut lets say 4 pieces, would it still work?
 @albertchen247  it would still work but you cant approximate it as a rectangle. Only when you approach infinity can you have nice rectangular relationships
But things change over time.  Middle school was 50 years ago for me.  This was MENTIONED, but not taught.   Certainly not the process.  Nor was it tested.   Plus, private schools tend to be MUCH better than standard public schools, so that could be a big difference.
i am not sure if the answer is even right, the right answer is pi and here is why; the circle perimeter=10 pi= rectangle length and the circle length is d=10 then simply we cancel the 10 with 10 the final answer is pi or to be more specific circle length is 10 while rectangle length is 10pi= 31.4
 @kazukawasaki97   the right answer is pi and here is why; the circle perimeter=10 pi= rectangle length and the circle length is d=10 then simply we cancel the 10 with 10 the final answer is pi or to be more specific circle length is 10 while rectangle length is 10pi= 31.4
 @ahmadfriehat4074  do it again: perimeter of circle/circumference=2πr diameter of circle given=10=2r rectangle length=πr so 5π rectangle breadt=r=5  if you want reasoning ill give but honey it ain't that hard,ok  ans should be=(πr+πr+r+r)-2πr giving 2r or 10
 @kazukawasaki97  i see, i didn't understand the question as the difference between the perimeter i though it is the difference between the diameter and the rectangle length.
​@albertchen247 when you place the pizza, first pizza slice have the crust looking towards you, next pizza slice have crust looking away from you. Think of it like a triangle. Put 2 triangles together, it makes a square or rectangle  Then, the extra sides added is the diameter of the circle
Facts bro, the kid just brought or memorized the answer from what he is taught, back in Mya grade 6 our school taught that and it from a textbook, and the textbook also says what the kid is saying, the engineer is trying to solve the principle out of it.
Not my middle school, i have never scene a problem like that except in like a 3blue1brown short.
 @ahmadfriehat4074  finally someone else who noticed it was wrong, (ur also wrong tho). The rectangle length equals half the circumference because you are using the bottom hemisphere for the bottom set of triangles and the top hemisphere for the top set of triangles. The length would be 10pi/2 which is about 15.7 meaning the rectangle is 5.7 longer
@ "ur also wrong tho"😂 yes you are right i redo my calc and find out that i should dived by 2 but ur answer is right if you understand  the question like that but actually the question is about the difference between the perimeter and yes it is 10 if you calculate it, the wrong was in the way they asked the question.
 @SleepyPlanzZ  The question is a bit weirdly worded imo. My best guess for what it's asking is "what's the difference between the rectangle's perimeter and the circle's radius". To help visualize, imagine a sliced pizza pie. If you take the slices and align them,  alternating facing up and down, you get something approximating a rectangle (not really exactly though, that'd require infinite slices). The crust can be viewed as both the circumference of the pie, and also sum of the top and bottom of the "rectangle". Both of the remaining sides of the rectangle are just sides of a slice, which equals the radius of the pie. Since there are two sides, added together they equal the diameter. This means the perimeter of the rectangle equals the circumference plus the diameter of the circle, therefore the difference between the perimeter and circumference is just the diameter, which is given as 10.
This is why "÷" is generally avoided in higher math. Too ambiguous.
I was doing it myself and I thought "wait am I stupid now?"
Bro u might go to the hospital if u go to koreans😂
i studied mandarin for four years but bruh, it was hell for me. speaking, reading, and writing drove me nuts. i couldn't even remember how i passed the class.
​@Maihunlaxmi Everything? 😂 JEE is especially designed for students who want to pursue engineering. Most people score badly, around 30% marks, but use percentile system. Wheras gaokao is a test for all high schooler, be it science aspirant, commerce aspirant or arts aspirant. It's like board exam of class 12, and board exams are joke infront of gaokao. Gaokao is ranked toughest exam for a reason.
Mei india se hoon... Bro Gao kal Chinese exam is toughest in whole world more than jee and UPSC​@Maihunlaxmi
 @keita4  yeah it’s really tough but if you get a good score, it’s like a ticket to a good university, unlike America, you don’t need to write any useless essay, do community service, or join extra curriculars
 @Klesal  being good at math isn't the only thing people look for in a college. They want you to be a good person and actually want to learn and get a job and help society.
@Twoopoint0-h4b the test in china focus on all parts of education, math, reading, science, English, Chinese, etc, the other stuff are only in America required, what college you go too is determined by your score on the test.
@ Sorry, i meant they don't only want you to be smart.
Learning english? No problem. Learning Malay? Sure. Being fully chinese in a chinese household where mandarin is the norm and continuing with my mandarin classes? HELL NO 😭
 @GetCookedByHyx  my sis been studied both, she said koreans are definitely the easier language, read, listen and write. lesson difficulty wise ? she said abt the same, its just in china have more competitors due larger number of students.
 @TheFeederabis  ok chinese language is harder to learn but im saying that exams in korea are JUST WAY HARDER. also korea is way more competitive of studying then china, my chinese friends all told me that theres many ppl giving up studying in china like alot but in korea thers barely any they just study so much like they dont even go on their phone
 @GetCookedByHyx  idk both are equally impossible to me tho 🤣, im just taking my sis (not sis sis, a relative) words for it.  shes the one studies in SK and china, not me.  we are a big families, lot of my cousins go studies abroad (im not, too broke). some in australia, germany, US, china, korea, japan, singapore, phillipines. (maybe some any others too, cant really recall all of them) one thing for sure tho, they agreed the hardest one is definitely east asian education standards whether  japan/SK/china + singapore.
Not really trained, the kid is just smart and uses simple (untrained raw intelligence) original thinking to solve problems. When you grow older, absorb so much knowledge and get trained, you will lose this capability. Of course, both are very smart. It's easier to use formulas, which implies lots of training, but lack of original thinking.
​ @BX8UWT  nah, if he gets training in math olympiad questions, he's used to questions that requires out of the box thinking. that already gives him an advantage. the questions are taken from chinese textbooks so i won't be surprised if he's seen some of the questions before.   this said, i'm not saying he's not smart, he is obviously very smart.
 @BX8UWT  First of all, not trained is just false, the kid lives and breathes school which Id argue is incredibly unhealthy. Second, the kid did not do any original thinking this video, he clearly already knew all the olympiad problems and was trained on what tricks you would need to solve it, I once got a problem solving interview question, but I already knew the problem so it was incredibly easy to make myself seem like a brilliant problem solver. Thirdly, formulas are just tools, but figuring out how to apply them requires original thinking, notice how Sheldon at the end figured out the steps to solve the problem after the solution was revealed. Finally, giving kids puzzles and making them problem solve is brilliant, but every day 6 am to 10 pm is pointless and absurd, likely when you get to university or get a job you will never solve a single olympiad math problem ever again.
 @Milos-mk9pb  but you will give us deepseek with 6M instead of 500B
I like the fact that Mao’s just chilling in the background staring at the camera lens.
Bro that kid is probably smarter than my smartest student in my grade, smartest student in my school and teachers
That last question though - how Xianxian explained the logic behind that one is a lot like what I had to accustom to when preparing for the ICAS exams in secondary school, and that one math Olympiad I tried out that time too - not the best student here, and certainly no real prizes to boast, but I honestly praise those who have the mental capacity to learn it all in such a manner! Great show, both of you! 👍🏻
He was my favorite kid from the last video. So respectful
12:19 This mother is actually scary. She's definitely expecting results from her child haha
19:40 he explained it so frkn well! this video made me weirdly happy? im studying engineering and struggling a bit but this motivated me somehow lol
Last question also shows how the area of a circle was derived. My gradeschool teacher (bless her soul) told a story of its origin instead of just giving out formulas and calling it a day. Main reason I really liked math since then.
After the last question, I officially feel dumber than a 5th grader😭😭😭😭
Those math questions bring back trauma from when I was a kid in China. You need math Olympiad training to get into good middle schools. And almost all of these questions are standard questions for 3 graders. I was considered a shit student back then so that was some fun time.
Well to be fair, the further up you go the more specialized you become in Math. You start focusing on very specific areas and equations while getting weaker in another.
11:03 Wait a minute, you can always see a part of the Moon during partial eclipses (either Lunar or Solar). During total solar eclipses, the Moon is in front of the Sun and hides it. During total lunar eclipses, the Moon is behind the Earth which blocks the sun rays and so the Moon appears dark red through gamma rays (best answer in my opinion). The only time a Moon might not be visible would be if it’s hidden by an object in the sky or maybe during a new Moon phase when it lays between the Sun and the Earth.
The last question is basically an introduction to calculus. I doubt that it's taught in 5th grade even in China but he solved it with logic. That's very nice.
I love how Sheldon follows 5th Grader's explanation at 19:00....so funny....🤣
4:22 The boy actually answered with the authentic term 大洋洲 Oceania.
I fell in love with that kid....He is literally looking like  straight came from Chinese drama ( Topper, Genius, buz haircut,Talk less) ❤😂
This is such a good video!!!! Youtube algorithms shoud recommend it to more people!
I believe the question at 10:21 is incorrect, the correct answer should be 5/96. This is because the 64(2/3+1/6) counts as multiplication and is not included in the brackets, so you would move left to right in order of operations. Then you get: 4/64 (5/6)  = 1/16 (5/6)  = 5/96
18:26 he's overcomplicating: the areas are same =πr², and one side of the rectangle is r => rl=πr² => l =πr
😅the boy just a medium student in China .I mean if you compare the whole city or country, not just his class
In China, there are a few kids like him in every class. Many students who don’t do well in their studies go to the United States to avoid competition.
He’s already been ranked smarter than like half a billion people, so, yeah…obviously? lol
In 4th grade, i remember a kid that took a tets and he was around 9th grade
As an asian kid, tha part feels like a jumpscare out of horror movie
as a Chinese child, It is very difficult for us in school especially if your mother expects alot from you. and it very difficult to be consistent with your grade :((
 @白キロ  And then at 30, she says why aren't you married yet after sacrificing your social life.
feels like you are projecting lol she’s literally just standing there
Bro shes just standing? 😂 Maybe he likes his mom being around to explain what the other adults in the room want.
Plz read this! Sheldon got it wrong, the length of the rectangle’s long side which is half of the circumference is actually about 15.7. Meaning the rectangle on its long side is actually 5.7 cm longer than the 10 cm circle. Don’t get confused.
After becoming a bit more conscious, I understand the answer Sheldon gave. He was referring to perimeter length but idk why they weren’t just talking about each shapes’ length. Cause it’s like asking what’s longer a curled up middle finger or a fully extended index finger and answering curled up middle finger even when it’s curled up indefinitely.
It’s not unreasonable at all. Look at people like mark and veritasium. Nyle red and such. It’s honestly more practical than stress about people hiring you in a non demand job.
you need to learn to think which is a skill (trainable/learnable) starting in preschool - preschool and primary schools are the most important for mental development
 @firstlast-pt5pp  yes, math Olympiad trains you to think. However, in that system, if you aren’t good at certain things (such as intense math Olympiad and poem reciting) that the school system wants you to be, you (an 8 years old) are a pile of horseshit. The system could, in Chinese saying, “kill a lot of buds in its infancy.” I am grateful that my parents saw how unhealthy that was, packed up, and took me to the US.  I went to an elite Chinese school in Beijing. It even had some crazy entrance exam for 5 and 6 year olds. And back then that was the best education one could receive there.  But all that being said, math Olympiad is probably optional. I’m pretty confident now I’m good at learning. I got a PhD last year for one. And I started teaching at a university in NY for another.  Sorry if this is too long. I saw math Olympiad questions and trauma kicked into my door and said hello to me.
 @dianew2007  - maths is just a platform to facilitate thinking lessons - that's why in the video the kid was asked to tell us his thought processes - if just an answer is required, just ask google/Alexa ( or ai ) -  Einstein used his brain to imagine and think not storing information that can be retrieved externally ( ai today for example)
 @firstlast-pt5pp I think we are talking about two different things, but yes I agree with your opinion. What I was talking about is the extreme side of forcing kids to go through the ruthless system of you have to do math Olympiad or you fail that was prevalent in China 10-20 years ago, not sure about now. Like I said—it’s traumatic. Like your teachers would tell you in your face that “you are trash” kind of traumatic. Or “you think you’re good at school work now? girls are dumber than boys, and boys will catch up and be smarter than you” kind of traumatic. And yes that was what I was told back then in elementary school, which is what you mentioned as the most important phase of education.
True tho bro. As a data scientist who works a lot with linear algebra and calculus, now i can't even solve a basic 5th grader geometry problem 😅
yeah u would see the moon in all of them a partial eclipse is a solar eclipse anyways and in a solar eclipse it is a new moon and during a lunar eclipse it is a full moon
I also got the same answer and searched up afterwards as well. We were right
The correct order is 1. Whatever that’s inside the bracket. 2. Multiplication denoted by bracket 3. Left to right multi/division.  So you need to multiply 64 x 5/6 first.
 @Don-bo7lp  I put it in the calculator, the answer is indeed 5/96
Agreed. Everyone got tricked by this trick question including the people in this video
 @valenliu6458  you can solve it in 2 different ways and both of them lead to different answers because of the brackets, so either of those answers are correct
 @Don-bo7lp  multiplication denoted by brackets does not get priority, as it is just multiplication. I think the question they were given was (1/6 x 24) / (64(2/3+1/6)).
 @argute_s  no, one of them is wrong because of order of operations. If you plug the question as it is into a ti 84 calculator it gives 5/96
 @valenliu6458  you can rewrite the question as 1/6 x [24/64(1/6+2/3)] since theres no brackets suggesting otherwise and this results in the solution being 3/40
 @argute_s Why are you rewriting, that is another problem. As it is stated 5/96 is the only correct answer
 @argute_s  u have an extra set of brackets. do not add any brackets to the question, they are entirely unnecessary. by adding the brackets u make the question completely different to what was asked
 @valenliu6458  i added brackets so that the problem is easily understandable, it doesnt change the question itself
 @valenliu6458  its kind of like that 8/2 x (something) or whatever it is, there are two different answers for it and both of them are correct, eddie woo has talked about it but the calculator says only one correct answer
 @valenliu6458  I gave the chatgpt and gemini they also found the same answer maybe they're wrong also I don't know bro
​so why are you putting the brackets when it's not needed? It changes the whole expression
 @aznelf13  no it doesn't change to better understand he/she put it
That's what I got, lazily doing it in my head (having no paper with me at the time).   I just assumed I was doing something dumb and didn't look into it.  For one thing, such algebra was over 50 years ago for me, and it's frightening how much detail you lose about algebra rules and tricks over the decades and as you age.
 @argute_s  No you can't. A math problem can only be correctly solved in two different ways if the result is identical! In this case, you are talking about solving two DIFFERENT examples in the same way - using the appropriate order of operations. If the parentheses are changed, a new example is created, giving a different solution. (1/6 x 24) / (64(2/3+1/6)) and 1/6 x 24 / 64(2/3+1/6) are two different examples which requires two different order of operations and giving two different answers each.
Thank GOD someone else said it  It ticks me off just how many people take “PEMDAS/BOMDAS” too literally to the point they psych themselves out of the correct order
what was involved there was implicit multiplication, 64(5/6), which takes place before explicit multiplication or division, so 64(5/6) needs to be done first  u can also visually think of 64(5/6) grouped together just like how they're all in parentheses as the numbers are "closer together"
64 ain't in the brackets lmao, there's a multiplication between them but it is not necessary to use it since it won't cause confusion ​ @Don-bo7lp 
​@GDPlainAif there is a division right before it you are required to include a parantheses like x=3 6÷3x is equal to 6 but 6÷(3x) is equal to 1
 @lastorderx20001  implicit multiplication does not require them all to be grouped in parentheses so 6÷3x=2/3. you have to consider 3x as "a term" due to implicit multiplication. as such, implicit multiplication comes before explicit multiplication or division as i previously mentioned
@GDPlainA You are speaking nonsense because we use "__"  in algebric equations. For example 15÷3x=1 would still be solved with OoO; 15÷3=5, 5x=1 and x=1/5. What you want to convey here is 15 over 3x=1 which is obviously different since it is equivalent to including a paranthesis. If you wanna see how objectively wrong your solution is, you can simply ask an advanced ai or google
@lastorderx20001  Try googling about implicit multiplication first and see what results you can obtain. If you think that it is nonsense, educate yourself with it because it exists in algebra.
@GDPlainA read "the implications of being implicit" on Solid Angles and you might actually see how algebra is properly done. You can even ask chatgpt. Literally no scientific source shares the same view as you lil bro
@GDPlainA also who even uses obelus anymore are you like 10?
 @lastorderx20001 Ok so I've read the link you sent.  "As it turns out, in some conventions, implicit multiplication may actually take precedence over explicit multiplication and therefore division!  For example, the "Style and Notation Guide" for Physical Review, an American scientific journal, specifies that implicit multiplication should come before division when submitting manuscripts."  This is proof based on scientific research about implicit multiplication, so it truly does exist and it is not wrong.  "The inevitable conclusion is that there is no single correct answer - it depends on what convention you're using."  I can see that the real problem is the use of writing the equation like how it would be done when typing with "LineIO" in the calculator, which makes the question worded ambiguously. This should mean that both answers are correct, so it seems that we're on the same boat. It also means that there will be a definite answer if the question is worded using fractions instead of the obelus that was used in elementary school.
 @lastorderx20001  "also who even uses obelus anymore are you like 10?"  Ok, this question is completely unnecessary inside this discussion, so please stay polite if you can.  1. By using the logic in this question, you would also be 10 years old because you also used the obelus in this thread, which I believe you are not 10.  2. For the record, I do NOT use the obelus anymore, but rather fractions. This makes expressions way more organized in my calculator, so I do not get confused.  3. I used ÷ in this discussion because going back to the question, it uses the obelus. But if we relate back to my standpoint about using implicit multiplication, I prefer multiplying first because it would look more convenient and sensible imo if the a(b) was grouped as "one word", which the spacing also helps.
@lastorderx20001  And by that, it's safe to say that both sides are correct, that the question is ambiguous (still puzzled with how a question where we're supposed to evaluate could give us 2 different answers), that fractions and parentheses must be used instead to clarify.  But you may be wondering, why I didn't educate myself with this conclusion, when I'm the one setting this middle ground. I'll have to admit, I followed what my calculator mentioned which used implicit multiplication as stated in the manual and so I researched about implicit multiplication and thought that PEMDAS was outdated and I do apologize for that one. The calculator I use is a CASIO fx-570ES PLUS, which I've used for at least 6 years (yea idrk why i bought this one when there are better versions).
@GDPlainA I apologize for my weird behaviour, this just confirms that obelis is simply the worse version of fraction bar. It still doesn't change the fact that an extra parantheses still has to be used (or just use fraction bar) in order to avoid confusion if these cancer ppl are gonna abuse this outdated joke of a question. I would absolutely say that the owners of the video decided to ask that question because it would obviously create conflict in the comment section giving people urge to comment on that exact part. We're just getting used by them, that's all. One of us being right does not matter as long as they get their share, we're mere subjects. Peace
 @greenray2616  You change the position of the bracket to add terms in the division...
 @Don-bo7lp  No. You do what's in the parentheses first. Once everything inside the parentheses is computed, you go to exponents, then mult./div. left to right.
 @argute_s  Not true. You cannot solve it 2 different ways. Only 5/96ths is correct.
 @greninjaarcv3432  No, they both wrote it down the same way without those extra parentheses.
@ I'm saying 5/96 is correct...If it was written as what we saw, then 5/96 is correct and the answer they gave is not. I'm saying there might be a reason why BOTH of them made that mistake.
Ya I totally agree I also verified by chat gpt and  The reason :- They didn't Use Bodmas in this equation  I am also examined my self
​ @Amy_skz0325  the order of operations is just a matter of convention, in fact a very simple convention could be go right to left as you accumulate the operators which would yield a different answer, so multiple answers are possible depending on the convention used. its generally best to use brackets wherever possible to denote the order of operations
 @argute_s  why would you make this assumption out of thin air
The only way the Western educated Canadian could get the same answer as the 5th Grader he copied the kids answer.
 @valenliu6458  Exactly! I am so surprised that people do not know the elementary rules of mathematics. If there is a task, for example, 8:2x5 - this means that FIRST you divide 8 by 2, and only THEN multiply the obtained result by 5.    A farmer has 8 small potatoes and plants two in a hole, each such bush will then yield 5 potatoes. This is what a math problem literally means. You must NOT break the sequence of mathematical operations. The correct answer is 20! NOT the fraction 4/5!
 @aisolutionsindia7138  But in this case we are talking about a unified generally accepted  convention in all schools. And according to it, the answer given by both of them IS WRONG.
 @Amy_skz0325  the problem with that approach is that it restricts creative thinking and the ability to grapple with unknowns, not a desirable outcome while teaching math.. for example there are programming languages that would interpret 7+3*4 as 40 instead of 19, i think this flexibility should be passed on to learners as well, if not you still got brackets
 @aisolutionsindia7138  well, no. In no way do I think it limits creative thinking. In arithmetic (and programming) it is necessary to follow an algorithm. One comma in the wrong place throws an error. Of course, part of the work is related to creativity, AND ANOTHER part is related to FOLLOWING GENERALLY ADOPTED RULES. Both are important.
 @Don-bo7lp  if you had an addition or subtraction sign you would be correct but in this case it counts as a multiplication so its left to right
@GDPlainA Did you read your own source?? The article claims that in some contexts, implicit multiplication might take precedence over division. However, the only proof it provides is a reference to the Style and Notation Guide for Physical Review (a scientific journal), which allegedly suggests treating implicit multiplication as having higher precedence.  This is not a mathematical proof—it’s just an editorial convention used in a specific publication. Scientific journals sometimes adopt non-standard notation rules for clarity in their field, but that does not change the actual order of operations in mathematics.  No rigorous mathematical source (such as textbooks, mathematical organizations, or formal logic) supports the idea that implicit multiplication should override division. This claim is entirely based on editorial preference in some niche cases, not on mathematical correctness.
 @argute_s  Dude what u just wrote  is equal to 5/96. U need to go back to school.
​@GDPlainAimplicit multiplication is a gray area, with some mathematicians treating it as you said, while others merely treat it as multiplication
5 grader doing all in the head and directly writing the answer is impressive and he knows the concept
I sent my boy back to China for his primary school education in 2023 starting from grade one at 6 1/2 as he was fortunate  to be enrolled in one of the top 10 ranking primary school in China. 18 months later, he now does 50 (within 9x9) multiplication questions in 43 seconds, able to read and write more than 1000 Chinese characters, and now starting to learn the periodic table on his own. My son is not a genius, not even the top performer in his class apart from English as his first language, I can only credit this significant growth of academic capability as a result of the very solid fundamental education in China. Way beyond what’s available in Australia.
Sheldon's "Am I dumb" was just too relatable LOL. Nonetheless, I still think he did great competing with the 5th grader!
They do a ton of logic puzzles that stretch their knowledge to their limits, so our fifth grader may not know calculus or what nitrogen is, he can do brain twisters like the circle problem no problem
I used to study in elementary school in china, my biggest achievment was proving the pythagoras theorum during 5th grade
I think sheldon is more surprised that all these adults havent seen these questions before and are still solving them pretty fast.
Should I send my future kids to China for their foundational school years?? 😅😅 this kids thinking is so good 👍
Tbh, the main difference is, the kid had seen and practiced these types of questions before in preparation for competitions like math Olympiad. If top colleges in the US said forget about sports and let’s admit based on math competition results, more American kids could do these questions with practice.
10:43 You see the shadow of the moon during a solar eclipse same with a partial eclipse, but in both you are looking at a new moon but it is technically more of a new moon when it is a solar eclipse. So the better answer is technically A.) Solar Eclipse
Great video, really enjoy watching it. The kid is so smart!
i hope this kid is loved by his parents and is enjoying his childhood
As a Chinese student I am very proud,this kind of question can only be considered basic in our country 😮
10:21 in an expression with multiplication and division it should be calculated from left to right, not multiplication first and then division. So both of you are wrong and the answer is 5/96
Bro sun eclipse and moon eclipse both have a partial angle, but you can still see the moon plus the first math problem is 5/96
This child needs to be my teacher... he explains well and I understood quickly unlike my teachers over the years... I'm so embarrassed and I'm Chinese too TT
hard question was easy, i took the 5th graders route.  simple logic.  smart kid
That last question really wasn't worded properly, it tripped me up until 16:16 clarified that by "length" it was actually referring to perimeter (I missed the clarification until re-watching), 'cause otherwise...  if it were solving for length where length is L in L*W=10π, W->r, r=10/2=5, L=5π, so the rectangle would be 5π-10 longer than the circle which is π/2 times longer or roughly 1.5707
you missed a point: the chinese language matters a lot in math learning! for example, it takes less than half a second to read though 9X9=91in chinese but at least 2 second in english.
@ yes, I’m aware of the Chinese language advantage in the multiplication example. Although labeled as the so call ABC, I wanted my son to excel in Chinese.
but now after going to the usa i feel like my math is falling back :(
Your kids will learn a lot in China. BUT he/she will also feel tired and every day under pressure.
dont its torture. let ur child live a more free and happy childhood
Your child must be able to handle stress well because it is very tiring.
Of course.   To all the people who complain it's too much work or too stressful, well, the kids at Andover also come back from school at 11pm, but I guess that's okay to them because their parents are billionaires 🙄
After seeing that timetable, I personally wouldn‘t. Where is the time for them to enjoy their free time properly? I had mine so why not allow my child the same benefits? At the same time you can still provide your child with good education, especially if you incentivice to do their best, even if it isn‘t in China.
In the mainland, there is much pressure, if they cannot handle it they will snap, like a stick being forced into the ground. My cousins in Guangdong and Fujian (East Mainland), have a much better mentality with stress than me, which shows how much stress they deal with. Some of the younger ones are even able to beat me in pretty much everything, even the non ed stuff!
No. I envy the easy schoolwork, no monthly exams in usa, don’t send them to china, it’s hell.
I thought they chose this setting for filming on purpose 😂
Mao is the founding father of China, without Mao, no China today.
pic on the wall is making this look like a chinese propaganda vieo for sure..
 @tw33dler  Many people feel Chairman Mao brings good luck: I saw taxi drivers in China having his pic in their cars.
Mao made a prediction that with great efforts from Chinese people, China should surpass us and uk. Fifty years probably is not practical, we may need at least 75 years to achieve that goal. Fyi, Mao said it in 1950s. his people believed it and are inspired to put their efforts into building a better China, that will eventually be one of most advanced countries if not the best.
People in China worshipped Mao including my relatives in China. Nothing wrong with that!
I guess only few people liiving in rural area still do this.
No only western kids are loved and have a childhood. How ignorant are you people lol
​ @thenecessarygood  by loved you mean spoiled? And their childhood is iPad and TikTok yeah? 😂
I also go tripped up until you just pointed it out. I had got pi/2
On the last question, my understanding of the answer is this: think of the circle like a pizza and the rectangle like all the pizza slices lined up together  with the crusts facing the outside. Kind of like a mouth full of sharp teeth that is closed. The question is how much longer is the overall perimeter of the rectangle shape than the circumference of the pizza. We also know that the pizza is ten inches wide, which means that every slice is five inches long.  If you think about it, the only difference between the circle pizza and rectangle arrangement is that the length of a slice of pizza is exposed on the right and left side. Since we know the length of a pizza slice is 5 inches and there are two exposed sides, the difference in length is 5+5, or 10.
Omg..This Sheldon is an engineer... No wonder the real Sheldon making fun of engineers 😂
3/40 is wrong answer.. × and without brackets should be done in order.. so 64×(...) done before "÷64" is a mistake.. to avoid this tipe of mistakes is usually recomended to revrite each division like a fraction and solve product in order: 1/6×24×1/64×(5/6)= (24×5)/(6×64×6)=5/96
Memorising formula and applying it is good but understanding how numbers works is better
I mean, at 0:46 his schedule is actually way harsher than 90% of other asian kids
For the math at the 10:00 mark I got 5/96 as my answer. When I copy paste the equation into a calculator I also get 5/96.
Anybody can be smarter just you have to learn everything in your mother tongue.
10:21 The answer is 5/96 There's a common misconception about parenthesis, it's true that we have to do whatever the operation is "INSIDE" the bracket first, but when we are done, we treat the bracket as a simple multiplication and don't give it priority.  After every operation INSIDE the bracket is done, the bracket becomes multiplication and we move left to right doing the operations   Edit: For People Asking for solution 1/6 × 24 ÷ 64 ( 2/3 + 1/6 ) Do the bracket 1/6 × 24 ÷ 64 ( 5/6)  This can be written as 1/6 × 24 ÷ 64 × 5/6 Go from Left to Right  = 4 ÷ 64 × 5/6 = 1/16 × 5/6 = 5/96  For reference I used Wolfram Alpha to cross check and bprp's yt video on order of operations.  Edit 2: I directly claim the ans is 5/96 cuz I have proof. Try to put out your beliefs or atleast don't provide baseless accusations.
Actually, engineers solve the problem directly. That schoolboy solved logical way.
10:22 You both are wrong because you forgot that according to PEMDAS/BODMAS you have to calculate from left to right if there are no brackets left. The real answer is 5÷96
14:25 The 5th grader took a shortcut here, and he used the difference of the least possible legs and the target number of legs, and then divided that difference by the difference of the number of legs of the rabbits and the chickens. The college graduate took the long route of turning everything into variables, then solving for them (using two equations with two variables), but it works all of the time, not just specifically for this problem, which shows the kid's school prioritizes trick questions, while the college the graduate took prioritized more important and usable maths and logic.
16:50 As a nerd, it is my duty to inform you that the plural of radius is radii.
14:20 This is a fun problem. I did R=4 and C=2. 4x10 = 40 (finding the most legs possible) 40 - 32 = 8 (finding how many legs over 32 I have) 8 / 2 = 4 (finding the chickens I need to reduce the total down to 32) thus C = 4, R = 6 (6*4 + 4*2 = 24 + 8 = 32)
15:25 In the last task, with the divided circle the kid used his spatial imagination and created a formula out of it while the engineer used formulas he learned in school and wanted to imagine a solution spatially based on these formulas. The engineer started his task backwards. Spatial imagination is important in math.
The secret is that mao zedong in the back for mental support
Meanwhile, Findland kids are in school about 3 hours a day, next to no homework,  get plenty of play time, speak multiple languages, AND ranked number 1. What are we doing?
I grew up in Germany and went to German school until 6th grade. I moved to the states due to my step-dad being in the army. So when I moved to the states, I didnt speak much english, but I understood math. I remember laughing when I got the math book cause I did the same 7th grade math in 2nd and 3rd grade. I realized I didnt have to try so hard in school anymore. I graduated with a 3.7GPA in High School and graduated with a 3.3GPA in college for Electrical Engineering. Never studied cause it was easier than German school. This kid cracked me up.
Omg thank you for actually stating the question correctly. Based off the wording in the video, it made basically no sense what value they were actually asking for and I have bachelor's and master's degrees in mathematics. Wish they had phrased the question the way you did bc yes, when it's actually stated correctly, it can be solved in just a few seconds mentally as the kid in the video did. Ugh that was annoying.
​ @bekanimal I agree. I was thinking if you overlaid the two shapes how much longer would the length of the rectangle be. The perimeter makes much more sense
thank you a lot😔😔 i wondered if i did it wrong
There is no sign between 64 and the bracket, so we take reciprocal of entire thing together. Your solution would be correct if there was a sign
@onlytoxicness Dude whatt??? When theres parenteses next to number or variable and theres no sign, it means multiplication. Thats literally a notation rule.
@zumulie6324 PEMDAS or BODMAS both involve REMOVING bracket when solving, before moving on. Hence if there is no sign, we have to open the bracket, getting (320/6) which can be simplified to (160/3)
@onlytoxicness No it doesnt. PEMDAS or BODMAS involve solving the brackets. That means (2/3 + 1/6) = (5/6) the brackets are already solved so u can just write it as 4 ÷ 64 × 5/6. The brackets, without any operation inside them just means multiplication. Thats literally a NOTATION RULE and u can look up on it.
​ @zumulie6324 Actually , there's a difference between brackets and multiplication. That person is right , if there's so sign then bracket is completely solved first . I mean it is multiplied with 64 and then the whole product is divided . For ex:  8÷2(2+2)=1 But  8÷2×(2+2)=16 .  It's simple .
​ @bhaveshsinghbisht fun fact! That's not right! While usually multiplication and division have the same precedence, implied multiplication often has a higher priority. The problem is that there is no standard way of solving it, and every author chooses to either consider implied multiplication more important or not.  When it is explicit, however, the order is clear.  So, what you've said is not a general convention in regards to the order of operations (and, to be fair, one I also disagree with)
I also think 3/40 is not correct. 5/96 is the right answer and that’s the answer any computer will give you
There's nothing about the notation that says: 1/B(C) = 1/(BC) [wrong] That's not how it works. The notation can be ambiguous, but as written it's: 1/B(C) = (1/B)(C)
 @bhaveshsinghbisht  you have different notations in operations: Addition="a+a"; Subtraction="a-a"; Multiplication="a.a" "a(a)" "axa" and Division="a/a" "a÷a". ALSO, addition and substraction go last, multiplication and division go first, but between multiplication and division there isn't any hierarchy, between both you solve first the one on the left. The same between addition and substraction, first the one on the left. In your case, 8÷2(2+2) or 8÷2x(2+2) you first resolve the bracket, THEN you have 3 terms "8"÷"2"("2") or "8"÷"2"x"2", that last brackets are unnecessary so you replace the form 2(2) for 2.2 or 2x2 now you have two operations one division and one multiplications there isn't a hierarchy so you start form the left. 16 is the only answer.
 @JuliánLucicMaljkovic  implied multiplication has the problem of ambiguity. It is a part of notation that is like that. Both interpretations are correct, that is giving precedence to implied multiplication or not.  That's because things like 1/2x exist, and in this case implied multiplication takes precedence.   I believe that, most often, implied multiplication takes precedence, only when the second member (sorry, I haven't learnt maths in English, only in Italian, so my terminology is not great) is a monomial expression, while parenthesis would immediately stop that priority.
What no I got the same ans i solved it uk 3 ppl won't make the same mistake!!
@tuluppampam 1/2x is ambiguous because there is no metric for what the "/" applies to. In written notation, you can clearly place the x with the 2 in the denominator or you can clearly place the 1/2 beside the x. That's the exact problem the obelus has, where there's no clear measure of what it applies to. It must apply to the very next number or letter, but everything after that is ambiguous. That's why the obelus is avoided in higher math.  1/2x = (1/2)x OR 1/(2x)  It's ambiguous and must be better specified. Likewise, 1÷2(x) can be (1/2)x OR 1/(2x). It's very much ambiguous. I'm actually surprised all three arbitrarily decided on the same way to solve it.
Okay I rewatched that part and looked through the kid's work out. It seems like he puts some paratheses around 64 and a second one behind 1/6. If that was the question given then I agree with the answer. With the question put up on screen I still believe my answer is right though.
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together. Also Casio calculators would get you their answer.
 @MasterlyRex8789   I mean that is literally not how math notation works. You can't randomly put parentheses in an expression that weren't there in the first place. I agree with your example of 1/½ but that is only because the whole ½ is put in the denominator in typical notation. 1/2x literally is (1/2) * x. Any correct calculator will tell you that as well.
Me too, vague question to be fair. Didn't group the dividing part properly so technically 5/96 should be the correct answer
@YuvrajSharma-u4b It's not vague (unless what was given to them was different from what was shown on screen), it's just straight up wrong with the desired answer.
But what if your second language is very fluent as you mother tongue!? Why Indians think they are at the top of everything while I can't see it!!? I am Indian too! I mean there's only Indians who are using this kind of words! Well it's okay, you are revealing how Indians are, that's cool! Just recently saw one Indian using slang words! And now another! And yes it is Indian! Huhu! Congratulation!  Now don't expect other people not to say this kind of words for Indians! It's expectable!
 @TocaJac_  I Added the Solution on my comment, You can Check it out
You have parenthesis tho at the (5/6) meaning you have to multiply 64(5/6) first. Its weird that you applied the right rule for the 1/6 × 24 and you didn't apply the same thing with 64(5/6). Try reading about PEMDAS rule.
you're wrong, the answer is 3/40. Your action, when you multiply 1/16 to 5/6 is incorrect, because it's a fraction, where 1 is numerator and 16*5/6 is denominator. Basically, you last action must be 1/16 * 6/5 because 5/6 is in denominator so you switch the sides of this fraction
 @equin07x  Actually, in PEMDAS P only means the stuff inside parenthesis, after you're done with those operations the parenthesis is simply multiplication, try typing this out into the Wolfram alpha or any other calculator
@ what im saying is that 16*5/6 is in denominator, while 1 is numerator. SO you have 1/16*5/6, you have to flip the fraction and will receive 6/16*5=6/80=3/40
no the bracket becomes multipication after the thing in it is done so u continure u to follow the second level which is division and multiplication in which division comes first
@ idk maybe its just my educational blur but in my mind "÷" means fraction. So i have 1/6*24 divided by 64*(2/3+1/6), but i got your thoughts
 @xnastya3254  Yup it's just a small mistake, if you have ÷ followed by *, remember that the ÷ and * have no relation with each other (Unless said so)
 @xnastya3254  ÷ and / are the same thing and mean division, so just follow the left to right order
⁠ @sohailansari07289  look at Wikipedia page for the ÷ sign. It is stated that in some countries it means division or ratios. That’s why it causes confusion and is recommended to not be used. So both answers are technically correct
Kid added (), changed the question to 16 x 24 = (64(2/3 + 1/6)). After the changing, the answer is 3/40😂
 @wangli-m6k  Why are you doing that changing? You changed the whole question and broke the left to right priority rule, given that both multiplication and division has same priority
 @sohailansari07289  If you look closely at the problem, they forgot the parentheses. 64 there's no multiplication,So they think they have to count the last 64 first…
 @sohailansari07289  Exactly! I am so surprised that people do not know the elementary rules of mathematics.🤦  If there is a task, for example, 8:2x5 - this means that FIRST you divide 8 by 2, and only THEN multiply the obtained result by 5. A farmer has 8 small potatoes and plants two in a hole, each such bush will then yield 5 potatoes. This is what a math problem literally means. You must NOT break the sequence of mathematical operations. The correct answer is 20! NOT the fraction 4/5 *Only 5/96 is correct! Not 3/40!!
The problem is that implicit multiplication (i.e. 64(5/6)) is treated ambigously.  If I told you 1/2x you'd probably treat 2x as the denominator, and in this case multiplication has precendence.  I only give implicit multiplication priority with monomial factors, otherwise I treat it as normal multiplication.  But there are reasons to claim that implicit multiplication should have priority, with which I disagree.
you are wrong. 64(2/3+1/6) is a single term, should do it first. If  we put * between 64 and brackets, then your answer  is correct.
 @khuto_games  I replied something similar to this pseudo-human but my comment probably got taken down.
@Peak_momentum  ok. Let me ask you this way: 3a÷3a=? If 3a same as 3xa, then the answer  going to be 3xa÷3xa=a^2.
@yeirp8916 I don't want argue with you any more. go ask deepseek yourself ...
 @SPhillip-z5v  I don't really care what you want. You can put that expression in Photomath and you'll see the output. You are confusing fractions with normal division.
 @SPhillip-z5v   ChatGPT and deep seek, both told the answer to be 5/96 (use BODMAS) and 3a divided by 3a is 1 and not a^2 simply because 3a in algebra is a whole unit, you can’t separate a variable from it’s coefficient while applying BODMAS here. But yaa you got me there for a second before I realised your mistake.
Instead of criticizing you need to appreciate this child's walkthrough. 15:11
🤓☝️erm actually that is only in English     Jesus loves you!❤✝️Repent and God bless
Bruh just leave it bruh ain't gonna affect your life   Just enjoy this video
It is my duty, as a nerd, to inform you that the plural of radius may be both radii and radiuses. That is because one follows, by analogy, English rules, while the other is directly from Latin.  I would say, however, even as a massive fan of Latin, that the plural radiuses is, to an extent, a more "correct" option, as that is what appears in speech.  Radii appears much less in speech, although much more in writing, which is more than enough to give it validity
Didnt read what you wrote but 2x+40-4x=32 so x=4 thats it.
Electrical engineering in German TUs is so much harder than in America.
10:03 I think both got this wrong, there’s isn’t parenthesis around (64*(2/3+1/6)) so the order of calculation was wrong. Correct answer should be 5/96, which would be what a calculator gives you if you put the exact equation in
He got it… all my education was just getting abstract answer.. we never got to crack our heads for the thought process
Sometimes I wish I never immigrated because my friends from hk were like  “Damn we learned this thing a year ago and you’re just learning this now?” 😭
13:45 I'm Japanese and I'm pretty sure most 5th graders in Japan can also answer this question easily- it can probably attributed to the maths curriculum here.
Ok but the answer to 1/6 x 24 ÷ 64 (2/3 +1/6) is 5/96 not 3/40. I was pretty sure but to double check, I put it through chatgpt and wolfram alpha. They also got 5/96. Here’s what chatgpt thinks happened:   The correct answer is 5/96, as confirmed by both manual calculations and Wolfram Alpha. Here’s where the contestants likely went wrong:  Order of Operations Error: The problem involves both multiplication and division, which must be handled strictly from left to right. Failing to follow this order could lead to an incorrect answer.  Fraction Mismanagement: When multiplying fractions like (1/16) * (5/6), you simply multiply the numerators and denominators: (1 * 5) / (16 * 6) = 5/96. An error in this calculation or simplification likely caused the wrong result.  Simplification Issues: Simplifying too early or incorrectly, such as during the step 4 / 64, might have led to incorrect fractions or skewed results.  If you follow the math step by step, the correct answer is 5/96, not 3/40. It’s important to handle order of operations carefully and work accurately with fractions! 😊
I think it is also worth noting that most kids in China are educated in public school systems where they have high quality education with pretty affordable (and very often free) cost
The mom at the back 👽😴🥱🤑🤑🤑🤑🤑🤑🤑🤑😮‍💨😮‍💨😮‍💨😮‍💨😮‍💨 Edit fun fact in china there is a test and the bottom 50 percent will not get a job so everyone wants to learn a lot so they can get a job
I would get the last question right if he said “perimeter” instead of just “longer”
For the chicken question u can just use supposition  I’m 9 when I learned and I live in Singapore which is in Asia
10:14 you both got it wrong. The answer is 5/96, not 3/40. I think "engineer" guy needs to relearn basic operational orders.
These questions are easy for him as a primary school student, but difficult for me as a college student (Chinese education is really effective but tiring)
Dang that kid is smart and he isn't even using a lot of energy to solve the problems.
Also call me a hater, but this kid knew most of the answers beforehand. Expose him to problems he doesn’t know and we’ll see if he’s still able to solve them. (Hey, it’m still extremely impressed that he understood the problems and was able to explain them so well :D)
19:50 you can tell with that double tap that he has an ipad
Asian people here. I remember when I was in 5th grade, my mother was telling me why I was going to math olympiads rather than school?
Guys, I don't understand the circle problem at 15:40 . The question is talking about the length of rectangle.  So, the length would be circumference ÷ 2 because the circle is cut into triangular slices which is put in both sides equally to make a rectangle.    Diameter = 10 cm  Radius = 10 cm ÷ 2 = 5 cm  Circumference = 2*π*r = 2*π*5 cm = 37.699... cm   Then the length of rectangle would be, 37.699 cm (circumference) ÷ 2 which is around 15.7 cm. And so it would be 5.7 times longer than the circle's diameter.  Please correct me if I am wrong.  Thank you!
Every one: he is good at maths   Me:that kid . . . . Cute
My mom told me that first Chinese schools have 1 hour and 30 minute lunches and Chinese kids usually don’t like conferences because their bad in their class so their parents will scold them unless the are a top student
​ @Rae_895 yes, they were both wrong, because in mathematics the sequence of actions is important, the result depends on it, and multiplication does NOT have priority over division. The correct answer is 5/96
That is not what calculators always give. Casio calculators would take into account implied multiplication by juxtaposition would evaluates 2(3) as a singular term.
I could espect this type of mistake by the kid but not by the engineer
It was bothering me too!! They both got it wrong LOL
Nope. Wolfram Alpha does not confirm it to be correct. Typing in 6/2x where x=3 will get you 9 while typing in 6/xy where x=2 and y=3 gets you 1. This means Wolfram is inconsistent in whether they take into account implicit multiplication by juxtaposition or not.
@ And it should get the same exact answer with a slight modification that doesn't change anything either but it doesn't. So no Wolfram does not confirm anything at all. Only showcases that it is inconsistent. Typing in 1/6*24/xy where x=64 and y=2/3+1/6 which shouldn't change anything, gets you 3/40 instead which means they are evaluating xy, in other words, 64(5/6) to be a singular term. Exactly how it is done according to Algebra. In algebra 2x+3y+5 has 3 terms. Not 5 terms. Engineers would never evaluate ab/cd as (ab/c)d when there is a much better way of writing it if you did want it to mean that way. Being abd/c.
@ And its how fractions work as well. 1÷½ isn't 1÷1÷2. ½ is grouped as a singular term and not split into 1÷2 like what you're trying to do with implicit multiplication.
@ Also using chatgpt, if you type in something like 64÷2a when a=4, it will claim the answer is 8. Not 128. I even ask'd it "Why not do 64/2 = 32 and 32*4 = 128" and it said that was incorrect, gave an explanation of orders of operation and at the bottom said that 64÷2a meant 64 divided the entire product of 2a.
I think they have enough money 🤑  I mean they are Rich;
I think maybe something got lost in translation, or the kid misunderstood the question, but the host didn't want to make things awkward. Should have just been very clear from the start. I solved it as the actual length of the rectangle versus the diameter of the circle, in which case it is 5pi-10, which is close to 5.7
No way you sound so cocky and are still wrong, you definitely failed 2nd grade maths, there are different order of operation rules around the world that give different solutions to same expressions and all of them are right.  Using BODMAS, 1/6 × 24 ÷ 64(2/3 + 1/6) =1/6 × 24 ÷ 64(4/6 + 1/6) =1/6 × 24 ÷ 64(5/6) =1/6 × 24 ÷ 320/6 =4 ÷ 320/6 =4 × 6/320 =24/320 =3/40
 @Nohomosapien  maybe you forgot that division and multiplication starts from left lmao 1/6 × 24 ÷ 64(2/3 + 1/6) =1/6 × 24 ÷ 64(5/6) =4 ÷ 64(5/6) =(1/16)(5/6) =(1.5)/(16.6) =5/96  you are tiring me with this instead of learning primary school math
 @samtk5759  pemdas and bodmas are literally the same thing but ok
Tbh… the question was not well formulated. Engineering doesn’t test PEMDAS lol
 @hora-azul  i personally dont have a problem with it but sure i get what you mean. they put × for multiplication everywhere except common paranthesis part, that can be confusing for many folks.
 @MeTuFy25  I wasn't going against you and I know that, I was talking about the engineer
Kid added (), changed the question to 1/6 × 24 ÷ (64(2/3 + 1/6)). After the changing, the answer is 3/40.
yesss thankyou i was starting to question myself when nobody else pointed this out!
These are general questions in Chinese primary school. To be honest, these questions are not easy, but not as hard as you think.
​ @jameshao2270 NGL true and  these questions for him is easy because everything is gonna come from under whatever he learnt but for an adult that has a lot in mind it's hard   And not downplaying him guy is definitely a lot smarter for 5th graders
 @jameshao2270  It definetly is. He instantly knew the answers to some problems without thinking like the rabbits one or the last one.
yes ofc the length can not be 10, u are not wrong. the problem said cut circle to pieces and reform them to rectangle, so area is constant. just do a quick count, if length is 10 and width is 5, its clear that two graphs has different area, it doesnt make sense. your reasoning is correct, dont be confused. length is 5pi, boy in vedio has wrong answer btw im a chinese master degree student, im also a chinese so u can trust me XD, its confused that those Top comments do not mention that, thats crazy bro, what a clear wrong answer but few people notice it. this reinforces my stereotype of the average youtube math level
Thank you very much for understanding my problem.   I am a 9th grade student and I found the answer wrong in the video so I just posted this comment to notify people about the answer.
 @whodaniel-swzzzzc i felt so dumb because i didnt find any comments that said its wrong thx
You worded it wrong. U should’ve said 5.7 cm longer and not 5.7 times longer. Honest mistake
Can someone clarify the moon question? Depending on the location, if your within the partial eclipse event, you should still see the moon. That's what makes it partial.
i was just staring and thinking “why is mao zedong there?”
10:03 isnt the answer 5/96 or am i missing something something? Note: after double checking and using chatgpt i can confirm that it is 5/96 idk why they messed up the problem
10:14 why do they first multiply 64 by the number in parentheses, and only then divide 4 by this result? sequence is important in math, multiplication does NOT take precedence over division. So, first you need to divide 4 by 64, and only THEN multiply this result by the fraction in brackets ... and you will get another answer - the CORRECT answer 5/96
The solution to the math problem in minute 10 it’s not 3/40 but it’s 5/96. When you have multiplication and division you have to follow the order from left to right.
It's like the dark knight rises the kid is Bane. 'you merely adapted to school I was born in it.'
The way her mother stepped behind the scene proves why he is impressive
15:43 This is just nitpicking btw, but I can’t be the only one who misinterpreted “length” in the last question to be the difference in their horizontal lengths (length of the rectangle minus the diameter of the circle, which would have given a value closest to 6), instead of the difference in their perimeters.  I was so confused when the answer was 10.😂
the question comparing circumference and perimeter (the last one i think), was worded horribly.  length is a dimension, a property of a rectangle. you cannot use it to refer to circumference and perimeter interchangeably, when it doesnt refer to either of those.  you should have asked "how much longer is the perimeter of the rectangle, than the circumference of the circle."  which is easy because i know it will be 2w longer, and the width must be equal to the radius, which is d/2, making the answer 10.  i actually did the math quickly bc i wanted to see how long it would take, when i got 15.7 - 10 (or [10*(pi/2)] - 10) and saw that the correct answer was 10, i thought i had lost my mind.
I still don't understand the last question. How much longer is the rectangle from the circle? You mean how much longer is the rectangle's bigger side from the diameter of the circle? If it is, it's not 10.??? I don't understand.  i get it now. the question should be '' how much longer is the rectangle's PERIMETER from the circle's PERIMETER.''
For those wondering about the last question. It’s a comparison of circumference and total perimeter. The “rectangle” is formed by let’s say dividing the circle into 4 equal parts (cool) and running them upward and downward facing next to eachother. Then the length is 2 on the top and 2 on the bottom. The sides added together is just the radius. In this case, we have a diameter of 10-so circumference is 10 PI. For the “rectangle”-10 PI is cut into two (5 PI on the top, 5 PI on the bottom) so we still have 10 PI. BUT, you are adding two radiuses together (5 and 5 on each side when doing a perimeter calculation) for a total of 10 more.   If you had more than 4 parts, eventually this would converge on a rectangle as the curvature of each respective pi gets flatter and flatter and infinitely smaller.m width for each triangle. Say for example we had 200 pieces, each triangle cutout when facing and stacked next to next triangle cutout in the sequence has less and less curve and the sides get flatter. This is basically an integral.  Anyways super impressive to see a little kid come up with this , and I think the question could’ve been framed better to be fair. I think this shows how kids simple thinking sometimes exceeds our overcomplicating thoughts as adults.
Aww man i love these type of content! Very educating and entertaining at the same time
I got a score of 26 which while isn’t horrendous, it’s CRAZY how much smarter both Sheldon and the boy are! For context I’m a 3rd year CS major with a 3.3GPA (was a 3.5 last semester but I ate a bad grade Fall 2024)
they wrote a comment saying in all three cases the moon is seen and the question just doesnt make sense
I looked up on google and it said solar eclipse is the correct answer. 🤷‍♀️
Both you are right. In western math system, multiplication (*) and division (/) have the same precedence and are processed from left to right. But in the Chinese system, multiplication should do first, before division. So their logic probably was 1/6*24=4, 65*(2/3+1/6)=160/3. And then 4/(160/3)=3/40
To be honest, I had heard that Chinese math education had already updated the rules since computers are using the western rules, maybe haven’t??
 @wanwong3088  🤦 nonsense! I am so surprised that people do not know the elementary rules of mathematics.  If there is a task, for example, 8:2x5 - this means that FIRST you divide 8 by 2, and only THEN multiply the obtained result by 5.  A farmer has 8 small potatoes and plants two in a hole, each such bush will then yield 5 potatoes. This is what a math problem literally means. You must NOT break the sequence of mathematical operations. The correct answer is 20! NOT the fraction 4/5 *And ONLY 5/96 is correct 😋
​ @是阿玮不是阿伟 sheldon got it wrong probably because of PEMDAS or whatever weird name they use: they don't teach the order properly, they just say PEMDAS
Bruh, division and multiplication have the same precedence, same as addition and subtraction, it's brackets then exponents then multiplication/division then finally addition/subtraction
@ order precedence also exists, if that's wat it's called. U go from left to right.
I guess they forgot to write parentheses around (64(2/3+1/6)), that way it would make sense.
Yeah no I don't know why they distributed into the parenthesis.
Thanks for the correction. I thought i forgot pedmas for a sec.
Haha that's what I thought! Difference in length is not the same as difference in the perimeter which is what the question said. I can understand the chinese child getting that because of language but yeh that answer I got 5pie-10 fairly quickly. But I learnt that in year 9. No way would I have gotten that in year 5 or even year 8!
Likewise, I had to replay it a couple of times and then read the comments if anyone could relate.  We're the same haha.
For that question I still don't get it. When each piece is cut won't the ends be curved like a pizza slice? So how do they form a rectangle when put together? I think im missing something?!
 @albertchen247  The "rectangle" is an approximation.  To be precise, the resulting shape is some shape with curvy edges, and you want to compare its perimeter against that of the original circle.
Yes. You are correct, will be curvy and hard to calculate.  However, the thinner the slice you cut the circle, the straighter the curved edges will be.  Imagine if you cut it into infinitely thin slices, the curved edge will appear to flattened out and more and more appropriate a rectangle when you combine the slices. ​ @albertchen247 
 @albertchen247  the more you split the circle into slices, the less curve the length of the arcs will have. so if you cut the slices into infinitely small pieces and arrange them into said rectangle, there will be no curve.
 @vanessaland5090 :  But you didn't learn it's Pi, and not pie?
 @albertchen247 :  That was my thought, but from the overall conversation, I presume that rectangle is the rough shape and each piece MUST have the curved part or the math including having Pi as part of the answer wouldn't work out.   The biggest drawback to this, IMO, was how VERY loosely things were stated, including dealing with the language barrier.  Math requires precision to be done right.
 @davidlee8406 :  And you're backing into differential calculus, with the infinitely thin slices idea...
@ oh yes it's been a while and I'm hungry, but you get the gist. english was just arbitrarily made up anyway.
 @rogergeyer9851  (tldr at the end) i understand that in this case, a pizza will indeed not form a straight line IN REAL LIFE, but i think you are overthinking.   The choice of a pizza is purely for illustration, its just a model that doesn't really affect the math.   The same question could use strings or metal wires, in which case you just straighten out the string into a line (it would result in a completely straight line with no curves). Thats the main point of the question.   While it is true that they should have used a string in the first place as that would be more accurate, i think they decided on the pizza to help the kid solve the question, as its easier to visualise the extra diameter of the rectangle (its 2 breadths) to be the diameter of the pizza (10), so the kid could also get the answer with a bit of critical thinkimg and without much math. In the end, the pizza was just a model of illustration.   You can definitely flatten the pizza edges into a straight line in real life, and even if it still does have curves, it will be so insignificant it will not affect the maths.  Also, if it still bugs you that pizza arranged in real life would form curves (even though the curves are insignificant),  you can definitely get straight lines from pizza crust irl, you just have to cut out only the crust. You can watch veritasium's video about pi, where he cuts out just the crust and straightens it (like it was a string), it can be straightened.  TLDR: curves of the pizza are insignificant and can be ignored
I had the same thought process, but gave the answer as a ratio (how many times longer is the length of the rectangle than the diameter of the circle). It's just a very poorly worded question that can give rise to multiple interpretations.
i agree with your solving but it means that they solve it wrongly, let's say we divided the circle into infinite parts so the rectangle length will b equals the circle perimeter, the circle perimeter equals pi*diameter=10pi so the circle length equals the diameter=10 and the rectangle length equal 10pi=31.4  by the way for every number of parts we will have different answer for the length of we want to be specific.
I'm a 2nd year robot operator and my GPA is close to 4 although its around 3.9 GPA. I'm not asian and I'm not good at math for one thing. I guess I'm just a chill guy but they pay me scholarship and i never felt like I worked hard for it.
14:58 I was really impressed by how the kid listened to the alternative thinking leading to the answer
11:07 isn't the correct answer a lunar eclipse? a partial eclipse, by definition, just a skewed version of a solar or lunar eclipse (where the sun or moon, respectively, are not fully covered). A solar eclipse is when the moon covers the sun (aka the moon is VERY visible), and a lunar eclipse is when the earth stands between the moon and the sun, blocking all light from reaching the moon and making it effectively invisible. So, an eclipse where the moon is not seen would be best described as a lunar eclipse, no? In any case, the worst answer is by far a partial eclipse.
Why am I so happy after solving the last question by myself the 5th grader did the same and I am 18😭😭
why is there a picture of Mao in the background :face-blue-smiling::face-blue-smiling::face-blue-smiling::face-blue-smiling:
Actually 3/40 is wrong, the correct answer is 5/96. Multiplications and divisions have to be resolved from left to right, and there’s no other hierarchical order between the 2, and numbers next to parentheses just indicate a multiplication, the only difference is that the sign is implicit, they still share the same priority of any other multiplication.
Actualizat they both got the 2 medium question wrong. The answer is 5/96 because 4÷64(5/6) is just 4×(1/64)×(5/6) which is equal to (1/16)×(5/6) and then to 5/96
15:39 The question is not phrased properly. According to this question, the answer is: 5pi - 10  The question they meant to ask was this:  Given that the diameter of the circle is 10, how much longer will the rectangle's perimeter be from the *circle's perimeter*?  Then yes, the answer is 10.
Bruh the last question is also misleading - it should have specified that long refers to the perimeter of the shapes not the shape itself. I thought the question was asking if how much longer in length is the longer side of the rectangle longer than the  perimeter of the circle. I got a similar logic as the kid and  would have gotten that right if the question was clarified
Wow the way the teach math is so different. They learn the logic behind the equations while we use formulas to solve the equations. cool stuff
10:48 The answer should be none of these. A solar eclipse is a phenomenon where the Moon blocks the Sun. The Moon, though is dark, is still visible since you can still see it cover the Sun. A lunar eclipse is a phenomenon where light from the Sun is blocked by the Earth. It's still visible due to Rayleigh scattering. "Partial eclipse" as an option is really broad. It can either refer to Partial Solar Eclipse or Partial Lunar Eclipse, but the Moon is still visible in both of these events.
Meanwhile in the US they think asia is a country 😂
I got 3/640 for that question I might be cooked 😂
Meh... easy questions. I thought the question in the thumbnail was the hardest question they would face.  Also, it's easy to understand why the kid won. It's because he hasn't had his brain rotted by algorithmic content on social media, which has slowed down the college dude's logic and critical thinking. He's not dumb, just slow and has forgotten the stuff that was taught in elementary school to us (I'm also asian btw)
No, a lunar eclipse is a blood moon You see it on any part of the world that night as the moon passes the earth's shadow giving it the distinct red color, i think you're mixing up a new moon for it
Yeah 👍🏻 Correct ac to my calculation also 5/96 will be the correct answer, Even I put this on calculator to recheck and the answer was same
1÷½=2 is the correct answer to that equation with 0 controversy. It is never interpreted as 1÷1÷2=½. They are using implied multiplication which groups someething like 2(3) together. With an equation like a÷bc, no one interprets that as (a÷b)c.
Thank you!! I was going crazy over why the answer wasn’t 5pi-10 but if they meant perimeters then yeah 10 is the answer
Excactly. I was thinking the same. This question really bothered me.
@king-vh8hy only in "north America" (without Mexico) "south America" ("another continent") knows about continents and countrys.
10:40 They both got the answer wrong again the correct answer is B) Lunar eclipse.
this child is smarter than 99.9% of the american voting population😮
I was surprised that Sheldon didn't immediately recognise that expanded circle... like as an engineer I would expect one to have been taught how the area of a circle was originally derived
let me explain the last question as i found the answer by myself, we know that opposite sides of rectangle are equal so here the catch, divide the circle into two equal pieces now the width of rectangle will be 5 units, {if you are not getting my point try to visualise this by dividing a circle into two parts expand it like a rectangle you will see that  the radius will be the width no matter what} so the perimeter of circle will be 10pie or 31.4 units now let l be length of rectnagle so area of circle = area of rectangle ie,25pie=5l or l =15.7 and permiter of rect, =2{15.7+5}=41.4 now they askedd how much long will be the rectangle form circle so subtract the circle circumference from rectangle there you that 10.
11:17 "I knew what it was because I knew what it wasn't" 😂
Also the answer to the PEMDAS one at 10 is wrong, but you argue they used a different convention since it was wrote deliberately misleading in the prompt given to us.  There is no precedence for the multiplication on the right just because it was using a parentheses instead of an x sign to indicate it. It's not an operation INSIDE the parenthesis. It should just be left to right  hence: 1/6*24/64(2/3+1/6) = 4/64*5/6 = 1/16*5/6 = 5/96  Maybe the format was different in the problem you gave them
hey, for 10:21, they got 3/40, yet when I did it I got  5/96. checked it out everywhere else and it said 5/96. considering they didnt add more brackets... they might be wrong. i understand that they probably learnt another system for arithmetic.
i love mao zedong just casually staring at the westerner getting destroyed by the chinese 5th grader
10:44 The moon appears in every one of the listed phenomena
10:22 how is it 3/40?? It's both wrong! It should be 5/96
Actually, I think Sheldon gave the right answer for the first intermediate question of 5 marks because moon is partially visible during the partial eclipse
The kid is super articulate, he is solving these at 5 th grade using logic, having a mech eng degree, i didnt understand his explaination for rabbit chicken problem, its linear algebra we learn it in 8 th grade.  His explanation are similar to our ancient math discussed in Bhaskaracharyas leelavati and other vedic math problems.
As a math olimpiad of Indonesia at the sixth grade this is so easy mostly because I trained my logic I had a revenge arc when I was the first grade I failed WMI(world mathematics invitation) and now I am one of the best in Indonesia I am currently learning grade 10-12 materials and some college materials like trigonometry. Thank you for your time 🙏
any explanation on eclipse question? didn't get it though, if based on visibility, isn't solar eclipse closest answer to total solar eclipse, where you can't literally see the moon, whereas you still able to see the moon (darkened or reddish hue) under total lunar eclipse.
TBH he's a smark kid but the hardest thing about these questions was the wording, In the question about the circle and rectangle they asked "how mutch longer the rectangle is than the circle", this is very ambiguious and i would not have guessed they were talking about the perimiter i thought they were talking about the length of the "rectangle" is which would require the amount of peiced to be known or i would have to assume the number was infinite and would then solve using some sort of intergral like function. anyway its good to see bright children exist(i havent found many in australia ), i was accelerated to year 9 when i was 13 and still wasent remotely chalanged by relearning what i did when i was 8 so i left school and am now homeschooled and am finishing Alevel physics and math this year(im doing the british curriculum online).
But I think the answer is not in options it is new moon or amavsya  in india
You can still see the moon during a full eclipse. It becomes red. That question didn't make any sense. You can see the moon in either a partial or a full eclipse. It's just black.
You are also wrong the correct answer is none of the above, moon is present in all 3
 @cja12345 :  We don't have enough information to know.  But he's a HELL of a lot smarter at MATH than the VAST majority of American students in 5th grade in public school systems.  And I'd guess something over 99 percent seems about right.
@ that kid is not smarter than 99.9% of American voters. Are you trying to tell me that out of every 1000  American voters, he is smarter than 999 Americans?
​@cja12345  I would say 90-95%, wouldn't be surprised if it's more. Trust me, I'm a students consistently scoring in the 99th percentile in standardized tests, and this kid is definitely up there.
LOL SO TRUE    Jesus loves you!❤✝️Repent and God bless
Not.sure, my 10 yo kid did the equation at minute 10 in his mind n said it is 5/96 not 3/40, but in the other hand it is homeschooled.😅 Guess all kids have strong n weakness.
it's the same answer when you plug in the string i wrote into a calculator
100%. If they wanted to come to the other answer they needed to write the entire denominator below the line or put parentheses around it.
Precisely.  I got the same answer (although I call it BEDMAS)..doing it in my head i thought i messed up but they didn't follow the order of operations rigorously. -I feel like Sheldon was a good sport as many of the answers came right out of the child's textbook..like he just knew the answer.  And doing simultaneous equations is a better way to approach the chicken & rabbit question than with guess and check... -Plus they seemed to cut out parts of his explanation at the end when he says he learned in a 'formulaic' way...
It's always frustrating to see controversial questions like this getting used in tests.  Mixing the usage of x with space, and / with (%divide) would keep my eyes rolling.
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together.
Common in countries that underwent a "communist" revolution in the 20th century, you see portraits of the Kims in North Korea as well and used to see Lenin and Stalin in the USSR
 @Hwanginho01  I know. Any website that has Tiananmen Square written on it gets scrubbed and isn’t seen by mainland Chinese a whole lot. It’s fun to type that in. Also you liked your own comment? 🤨
 @IvanPowell-dt6vb  yes everyone has the opportunity to like one own’s comment, and I believe the Tianmen Square should not be censored.
Sadly for the mainlanders they have to try thrice as hard as the rest of the world just to live by because their dear leader starved their ancestors by killing some birds 😅😅😅
@apoiujdba0-9u  is this the 1st video u seen on this channel? Algorithm normie
​ @apoiujdba0-9u   Don't worry, you will graduate the 1st grade one day
It’s the issue of whether to do the parenthesis or not
Lol they both got it wrong but I guess it cancels out, I get it from the kid but the engineer is another story
That's what I thought 😂 they can't do PEMDAS / BODMAS
The answer is actually 3/40. Here's how I do: (I will try do as many steps as possible to make yall understand) (1/6)*24÷64(2/3+1/6) = ((1/6)*24)/(64(2/3+1/6)) = 24/6 * 1/(64*5/6) = 4 * 1/(320/6) = 4 * 6/320 = 24/320 = 3/40 Feels free to correct me and if you still not understand, I might explain to you. Anyways, here's my end sentence word: lol
 @mrcwmmt  So these brackets are used to group the numbers. I suck at explaining so here and example lol a*b*c*d is the same as (a*b)*(c*d) In the video, it was like this: a*b÷c*d = (a*b)/(c*d) The divide function is just a multiple but reverse (idk can u understand that for me lol) so basically everything you got from multiple can be used in divide. ps: thx google translate for explain me what "parenthesis" means
@ no… a*b/c*d is not equal to (a*b)/(c*d), but is equal to a*b*(1/c)*d, which has different meaning
 @mrcwmmt  Hmmm... You got a point. Ye i messed up that sorry idk if this will be a legit answer but... In the video, it's: (1/6)*24÷64(2/3+1/6) Notice there's no * between 64 and (2/3+1/6)? I'm assuming that it means that 64(2/3+1/6) is in its own part, and cannot be seperated like 64*(2/3+1/6) although when standing alone it literally the same. You can grab a calculator and check it out, I myself have to test multiple time before writing this lmao
@Warp123  Yeah I know I messed up that one explaination, but I can confidently assure that the correct answer is 3/40.
He first takes the limiting case (all 10 are chickens), which means 20 legs. Then to get to 32 legs, you need 12 more legs. Only way to do that is to turn 6 of the chickens into rabbits. 6 rabbits, 4 chickens.
the arithmetic problem can have many possible solutions, but the generally accepted convention should yield 5/96
The second item in medium level they both got the answer wrong, the correct answer should be 5/96 not 3/40... (10:02)😐😐
For the last problem, the circle has a radius of 5 therefore, the circumference is 10pi where there are 14 pieces thus each pieces arc length is 10/14 pi and if you look at the rectangle, there are 7 arc lengths on each side and the length of the rectangle is 5 so therefore making the length of the rectangle 5 and the with 5 pi making the perimeter 10pi + 10 thus the rectangle being 10 units longer.
Amazing kid, but man, am I glad I had a fun childhood full of both freedom and self-expression AND education, as opposed to pretty much just education. Education is crucial, but so is actually living a well-rounded life. Life is about more than just grades
Actually, the engineer was the one who memorised formulas while the child had the logic.
17:52, The lengths of the ‘rectangle’ is the circumference of the circle with the diameter of 10, so what’s left are 2 radius, and 2 radius’s are 1 diameter, which is just 10 😂
9hours studying and 4hours of problem solving with food and naps in between. No wonder a 5th grader over there is smarter than a lot of adults here in the states! A lot of hard work and dedication! 🙏🎊
The middle kingdom is safe with these ultra smart next gen kids.
15.41 question : the circle length or diameter is 10. The rectangle length is 5pi. The rectangle is 5pi minus 10 longer than the circle
Why is no one talking about there being a picture of Mao Zedong on the wall?
20:38  Sheldon was reaching for the money like he won.😄
I can personally say that as an Italian these problem are nothing of special.
So much pressure sitting next to a smart 5th grader, I mean he tried his best. The kid is so cute and polite. I’m glad I wasn’t in the school system in china for too long, those questions are so hard, I personally get compliments for being the smart one mostly in Math. But here I feel like I’m fine, bye bye 😂
That’s actually very very impressive. I have always been told that East Asian people are actually very intelligent because of their school system but i didn’t realise the huge difference between east-Asian school systems compared to the rest of Asia and the world, I think that’s why they are very ahead of us! Good for them
10:06 - the answer is 5/96, and they are both wrong.  24 x 1/6 = 4 4 / 64 = 1/16 2/3 + 1/6 = 4/6 + 1/6 = 5/6  1/16 x 5/6 = 5/96
Yeap, Im an engineer and I would have done all the problems the way Sheldon did. I regret to admit I got the speed of light wrong though, which I felt shameful afterwards 🫣. But most all others I got and more or less with the same process and speed as Sheldon. I did not tried the last one cause I felt defeated when the young boy wrote 10 in 1 second. 😂 I put the pen down and rooted for Sheldon!!!   Very wholesome to see the two methods work, see how perfect and dependable math is. Would love to have the level of logic behind, that the chinese boy have.
That's what I was thinking since its written in a straight line form
The question didn’t state the number of pieces. It’s supposed to be an answer that applies to any number of pieces.
It would still work for any amount of pieces. We can call the number of pieces P, the radius r, and the circumference 2 * pi * r. The arc length would be (2 * pi * r)/ p and the width of the rectangle is always the arc length of the circle times p/2 so the length = ((p/2) * 2 * pi * r)/ p which simplifys to pi * r and the length of the rectangle is always r so now the perimeter is 2 * pi * r + 2 * r and plugging in the circumference of the circle is 2 * pi * r and d = 2 * r, the perimeter of the rectangle is always the circumference of the circle plus its diameter.
The length of the rectangle actually is 15.7units.  Reason: the circumference of the circle=2πr as diameter is 10 so radius=5. So, C=2*3.14*5=31.4units.   As one side of the rectangle is half of the circle's circumference so half circumference would be 15.7 units which is the length of the rectangle.
Yes, I said the width is 5 pi, the length is the radius of the circle
eh.. they both had logic but different kinds. The kid had good logic but also encountered lots of familiar problems which gave him a bit of an advantage  Sheldon used "formulas" which are really just definitions of circumference of a circle? And he's able to piece it together to use it to inform his problem solving, not replace it. But it's a bit more a rigorous first pricniples approach which is typically what academia and professionals want, instead of just quick one line "trick" finding. This is better because it actually justifies mathematically from axioms which is the better solution in general, and is good for unfamiliar axiom sets  Also the last question is a bit of a trick. Probably lost in translation, but it DOES matter how many sectors are cut out. If it approaches infinity, then sure it's a rectangle. Otherwise you can't really call it a rectangle b/c of the non zero curvature. I think that's what tripped Sheldon up because he assigned some different variable to what the straight amount was instead of just assuming it was infinite sectors and therefore a straight line and just adding up to a circumference  The latter treatment also requires extreme care in mathematics and a strong grasp of limits and maybe even defining things similar to a Riemannian sum. This is why rigor is important  But of course he could've also just played it smart and realized he was doing elementary school problems
They are both using formulas and you can only use formulas by applying logic anyway. But the kid is dealing with these kind of simple abstract problems frequently and recently, so intuition kicks in right away, while the engineer probably doesn't wrestle with these formulas as often anymore. Also he was probably looking to express the answer as a formula for all diameters while the kid had more of a math competition approach of just outputting the answer.
You don't need pi. However many segments the circle is cut into the curved edges at the end of the segments were all part of the perimeter of the circle, so they must add up to the perimeter (Circumference) of the circle? = C Those curved  edges form the long sides of the rectangle. The number of segments doesn't matter. The Short sides of the rectangle are each the straight side of a segment, which is the radius of the circle  . The circumference (Perimeter) of the circle is C The perimeter of the "rectangle is" C + r+r = C + 2r The difference is (C+2r) - C= 2r = D.... and we Know D= 10
you can put George Washington pic at home if you want, hahaha  or you like a portrait of trump at home
Anyway kudos tò the child, It Is still more difficult for him, mainly because he lack the "mathemathical tools" to easily resolve those problem.
well yeah but i think the point is that it's hard for a 10 year old but pretty easy for most adults
Thats grade 5 kid buddy in Italia you learn that in High school so dont play cool here
I am a 42yo MD from Brazil and I solved all in my head.  For an engineer, the guy should be able to get them all right with ease.
After watching this and the "Chinese kids try American school lunches" video I can say I am officially a Xianxian stan 🙌 Kid's gonna go far!
Sheldon was fighting for his life while the baby was just yawning! Chinese education is really elite
At 3:42, that should be spelled "peek", not "peak". Those are two words with different meanings.
They both got the 3/40 one wrong. The 64 (2/3 + 1/6) is just an alternate way of writing multiplication, so it doesn't occur before the other multiplication and division, making the answer not 3/40.
I love romanticizing school system that force Children to study all day almost every single day, with no time to be a child.
on that last question, i thought i was stupid, until i realized it's the perimeter of the rectangle compared to the perimeter of the circle. If only i could understand that question, I'll be able to answer that in less than a second too 🧙‍♂️
10:01 The expression is not well-defined; do you want to have $1/6 \times 24$ divide $64$ first then times $(2/3+1/6)$, or first compute $a := 64(2/3+1/6)$ then divide $1/6 \times 24$ by $a$?  11:49 All you have to compare is the area of the square and the area of the circle. Given they all have the same perimeter, it is obvious that the square has the largest area among the three quadrilaterals (this is just calculus, if you think about these quadrilaterals as deformation of the square, the area function maximizes at the square). Now without loss of generality assume the perimeter is 4, so that the square has area 1. The circumference formula implies the circle has radius 2/\pi, so it has area \pi (2/\pi)^2 = 4/\pi >1, QED
Never heard of the chicken rabbit problem, I divided 32/10, gave 3 legs each, gave away the remaining 2 to a couple of 3-legged's, and then had each 3-legged left give 1 to another 3-legged until there were no more
0:15 HES FROM WATERLOO that one school where they made a man dark and another look homeless 😭😭
Dude, I tried to solve the last question, and it took like 2 mins and I was surprised lol (South Indian here) Love the vid!
Explaination rabbits have 4 legs chickens have 2.  I counted rabbits first as 4's To reach 32  24 = 6 rabbits the remaining number is 8  Can be done by both chickens and rabbits.
10:06 - the answer is 5/96, and they are both wrong.  24 x 1/6 = 4 4 / 64 = 1/16 2/3 + 1/6 = 4/6 + 1/6 = 5/6  1/16 x 5/6 = 5/96
 @sunhan8851  they literally have multiplied by reversed number instead of dividing. How is boDMas different from boMDas? You want to suggest that x1/2 is not equal to /2 ?
 @chaimaaa394  you multiply and divide from left to right. multiplication and division are equal in order. So you should solve it in this order: 1/6+2/3=15/18 1/6×24=4 4÷64 =1/16 1/16×5/6=5/96
 @sunhan8851  why Division goes before Multiplication, do you actually know? BODMAS rule is misleading. Division and Multiplication are equal
 @sunhan8851  they DIDN'T. Even if you do BODMAS, you get: 2/3 + 1/6 = 5/6 24÷64 = 6/16 1/6 x 6/16 = 6/96 = 1/16 1/16 x 5/6 = 5/96  it's math, there are no "opinions" - there's 1 right answer
 @sunhan8851  the problem here is that they both made mistake in simplest math, and the guy checking answers never did the math correctly himself. And now you're trying to defend them, using opinions as if we're talking about poetry.  I'm a mad at them for being so sloppy in preparing for that video.
 @Rustam2704  Alright then be happy with your view. I am not going to argue with someone who isn't open to understand and be considerate of any comment.
 @Jiglias  Not really, distribution isn't taken into account when solving an equation without variables. It's just like that one famous 16 or 1 question, except here the 16 is the 3/40, both of which are wrong
@ distribution isn't taken into account by you. If tomorrow everybody decided 1 was the correct answer, it would be. The rules of maths are made up, and not everybody follows the exact same rules.
Nah, Joma Tech is gonna get cooked in LeetCode competition against a Chinese kid
Those weren't the only inaccuracies, ironically. The answer to which phenomenon the moon wouldn't appear in is obviously option A- the Solar eclipse.
help i was looking for this comment the university of depression
Mao zedong was helping the child, you can see it in his eyes.
I am so confuse why math question on 10:02 is 3/40 not 5/96
Out of every other videos on YouTube only yours was good. Straight to the topic and no bullshit
This is the same reasoning behind why Elon says that you won't find the best Engineers in the U.S. Yes he does want lower wages, but students in Asia do produce better thinkers because they focus heavily on word and logic focused questions in tests while we use mainly do equations that requires formulas. It's basically the difference between practical use and impractical use, you can recite the definitions and formulas but you aren't going to be able to innovate and think of new problems and solve things nearly as well.
Something I missed in the math we were taught in school was the logic this 5th grader has such a grasp of. They only taught us the ready made formulas and then sort of randomly gave us some numbers to fill into it. I could never really grasp a shape or vector, or whatever, from that. I could get the right answer, I was "good" at "our" math - but I never understood the principles behind the it so it never made any real sense to me.
In all fairness the question about Nitrogen should have been removed from the total since the kid didn'tt learn that yet.  Very impressive.
I kid you not there was a television show in Vietnam called "Who's smarter than a 5th grader" 😂 Asian kids are on another level in this field
10:44 im confused about the moon not appearing. A solar eclipse the moon is infront of the sun so you can only see the moon, in a partial eclipse its partially in front of the sun, you can still see it. In both, the shadow is on the side facing the earth. They look dark in both but still appear in both. And then lunar it’s red so it’s not that. I feel like it doesn’t make sense.
I learned so much from Xianxian, please do more videos with him and other kids from around the world.
It’s obviously a kid was taught before how to solve it and did it already. Engineer made it by himself
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together.
​ @MasterlyRex8789  i understand the concept of  2(a+b) = 2z but i am still genuinely confuse even 2z = 2 × z right? so if the full question is a × b ÷ c (y) it's still mean ab ÷  c × y no? im so confuse when the kid pull the a × b ÷ (c (y)) like was math scientists did some new update where you have to specialize a(b) first and become (a(b)) even tho there is another division or multiplication before that? i am not trying to be smart or something because i can be wrong here since no one point that out but like i said i am genuinely confuse how a ÷ b (y) = a ÷ (b(y))
​@moldymushrooms1696 Australia is a country, Oceania is the continent in which Australia exists.
Guys it’s like debating wether Taiwan is a country or not, calm down
@Mustafa04NS  at first, when she was hiding, I thought it looked like Hijab.
Yes, they produce them because of what they focus on in that society.
When you have a number next to an equation in parentheses, it means that number is essentially distributed to each component of the equation in parentheses.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributive_property  Therefore, PEMDAS says 64(2/3 + 1/6) is the same as 64(2/3) + 64(1/6) = 128/3 + 64/6 = 256/6 + 64/6 = 320/6 = 160/3. Alternatively you could just do it the easy way 64(2/3+1/6) = 64(4/6+1/6) = 64(5/6) = 320/6 = 160/3.   so then you have 1/6*24 / 160/3 = 4 / 160/3 = 4 * 3/160 = 12/160 = 3/40 FINAL ANSWER   this equation is NOT meant to be solved left to right
​ @jg8115  Thank you for your effort. I ignored the division and treated the equation as multiplication. Basically calculating:  1/16 * 5/6 instead of: 4 / 64 * ( 5/6), solving 64*(5/6) first
0.3 km/s !? Huh😮! Let's use very simple method, which I know! The speed of light is 3×10^8 m/s So if we need to convert it to km/s, It's (3×10^8) ÷ 1000 = 3×10^5 km/s!
No you are wrong it can't be 0.3 light is way faster
Then what is it?  I went to school in China once and it's approximately this schedule. Maybe its different for each school idk
@violet3454 We go to primary school in China at 8:00AM - 4:00PM. I have never seen any Chinese primary school student finish school later than 6:00 PM in decades. Most of them finish between 3:00 PM and 5:00 PM.
Nah not every asian kids are smart 🤓 there are brilliant one but most of them are still better than western side people but as per the level of asia it is still low Asia have world toughest exam and people prepare it from 1 grade
It's been such a long time since i enjoyed a youtube video so much!!!! Wish the kiddo all the success with his life ahead and our mechanical engineer too! 😂❤❤
Speed of light question should be stated as “How fast is the speed of light in a vacuum stated in km/s”
It’s funny cuz this is the exact thinking logic between me (Chinese education, initiative, calculate in their brains) and my husband (American education, encourage creativity and heavy written calculations). Both will get to the solution and I think both are equally important/smart. It’s just the paths are different. Fun fact: My husband asks me to do the tip calculation all the time😂
kid:i dont know wt is nitrogen ? engineer :" thats fair thats fair " and adds 2 points to hi score 🤣🤣🤣🤣
I wish someone was feeding the kid correct answers so I wouldn't feel so dumb 😂😂😂
I'm genuinely confused as to how a waterloo graduate could not answer the last question. waterloo is like the most renowned CS and engineering university in Canada. Even my dum ahh could answer every question right except for the eclipse question, which was inherently flawed. But I guess the last question could have been worded better as some could interpret it as the length of the rectangle (5.7 longer) or the perimeter of the rectangle (10 longer).
The kid memorizes a lot of those problems. The engineer is exposed to them the first time.
I think this is prove that the traditional school system (12 years of school + 5 years of college) should be reduced much less time. Here is 5th grader who already beats college graduate.
Bruh, I think is not an average 5th grade, it’s like a genius in 5th grade
As an asian the answer 3/40 of the maths question is incorrect, the correct answer is 5/96
“how do you the answer is the last one?”  Kid : “Because i already know the first two.” 🤯
I admitted it, I’m dumb as fudge!  Even after the kids explain how he arrived at the answer, I’m still clueless.
I used to be an online teacher for Chinese children, and the only thing I loved and questioned about parents was how much they insisted on their children attending different classes like math, English, and music outside of regular school. One parent who lives in Shanghai said that it is a form of social pressure to push your child to learn anything outside of school.
The circle question was not we articulated. Given that the diameter of the circle is 10, how much longer will the rectangle be from the circle?   It should have said: If a circle with diameter 10units is cut into sectors and these placed as to form a rectangle. How many units larger would be the perimeter of the rectangle compared to the circumference of the circle?
I understood xian xian's explanation about the hard problem, he's very intelligent
Only for foreigners they got it like that, but I agree on what you said regardless.  School is too long.
The asians are so smart, they just started competing with each other
Also just to clarify, Engineering at Waterloo is one of the hardest, if not THE hardest undergradute program in Canada.
You guys need to do a China trip and make some videos man. You are the best youtube to show the world what China really is about since you understand bit of the culture comparing to the foreigners who travels here.
I am a European, and here, the average level of educational difficulty is generally quite high. I believe that the main difference between the "Western" (or at least European) method and the Chinese one is that they tend to apply logic extensively to problem-solving, effectively "bypassing" numerical difficulties and focusing on memorizing the logical processes behind a specific category of exercises.  Here, on the other hand, we almost always work with numbers, formulas, theorems, statements, etc., and then apply these elements practically. With the first approach, students can tackle more complex problems at a younger age, while the second method follows a more gradual progression.  However, I believe that, in the end, both approaches can lead to excellent results by the end of a school education—provided they are used intelligently and in the right way.
I like the kids ability to see something, and understand it. Formulas and math rules are just tools.
In the question "when will the moon not appear during the phenomen?" The kid answered patial eclipse but I think that lunar eclipse should be correct
What’s even more hilarious is the portrait of Mao in the back.
That circle one was made confusing and vague on purpose for engagement bait 😂
question: a square has 4 sides. each side has a letter. 1st side is A, 2nd is B, 3rd side is C and 4th is D. The square is cut into slices and the slices are arranged into a circle. Where are the letters now? (The answer is in the comments)
im surprised by how long the engineer took for the cricle/rectangle problem
Sheldon could have used his one peek to look at the kid’s answer and won for free
Neither an engineer nor the Chinese 5th grader know BODMAS? Common, like the answer to the arithmetic question was 5/96 and not 3/40 guys.  No one spot the mistake?
10:03 you guys are aware that the answer is 5/96 not 3/40 right? Like 1/6x24 is 4, 4/64 is 1/16 and 1/16x5/6 is 5/96. It’s basic math
At 10:21 , I believe that order of operations dictates the 4/64 before the multiplication of 64 * (5/6).   The correct answer should be: 5/96
So, for the last question, if you cut the circle on infinite ammount of sectors and bind them together we will receive very close aproximation to rectangle with small side equal to R of circle and unknown long side. However the AREA of both shapes will be equal, since they are composed of the same parts. We know that circle area is pi*R^2, and we also know that each sector is from center to periphery (radius) so the missing side becomes pi*R^2=r*X, we know that R will be 5, so (25pi/5)=x so X is 5*pi. As far as the question, I simply do not understand what 'longer from a circle' means... The only way you can reach the answer 10 is if the question means How much longer the P of the rectangle will be, comapred to P of circle. And using our previous calculations it will follow that P of the rectangle is 2*5+2*5*pi, 10 + 10pi and the P of circle is 2*pi*5 which is 10 pi and we can see that the first expression is greater than the second by 10.... However the wording of the question was quite bad in english...
The moon question is not C actually, it's A in a total solar eclipse. In a partial eclipse, the moon in a partial eclipse is partially visible.
yea dig the real side of China, not just the pretty side🤨
creepy, I would say. funny how everyone pretends not to see it
20π - 20(because 20 was all of the sides combined, which includes π. 20 is the circumfirence of the circle.) = 0 because there is no exact location where the letters can be. It depends on how you form the circle.
I did spot the mistake, but none of the top comments talks about it
Mathematically inclined children exist in the US, China,  Russia, etc. I was solving this in 5th grade, growing up in USSR, but I wasn't a typical student.
Obviously, Sheldon gave away with the solar eclipse. He's a sweetie... so is the brainiac next to him.  My son called his elderly 80+ y-o relative for help with his math homework over the phone. She gave him the answer within 5 seconds but when asked how she arrived at the answer, she said she had to call back with the steps. Everything was automatic. She said she felt it 😂
By the background we can confirm that they are from China and are currently in China 🙃🙃
That kid solve the last question I read the word Chicken instead of circle ..... BRuH
The chicken and rabbit problem. I met it for the first time in my discrete math in university (my uni is one of well-known universities)
but the questions are the thing that they just learned in school while cheldon learned it like ten years ago
A mechanical engineer struggling to do basic math is so funny😂
I disagree with the last question answer because when you say difference in length it is not the same as difference in perimeter. The answer is [d-pi*r] which is 5.7 but the difference in perimeter is 10.
The other day my 7 year old son came home and told me he knows how to say water in Chinese. I asked him how do you say it then? He confidently said “Aqua”.  😂😂😂😂
I think they way of solving questions in china is different as in asia there way is too logical and time saving as well i love to learn their way ❤
18:57 "what is there to explain" lmao imagine hearing that from a 5th grader😭
It's not a rectangle—that messed me up. Other than that, great final question.
In the last question we have to find the length then the answer will be 5
The kid is super smart and normal. Lots of times you get one or the other but not both.
The kid was so bored waiting for the engineer.  😁😁 And he has a language disadvantage as well.
If doesn’t mean the kid is more smarter than him, the engineer probably forget most stuff in 5th grade and 6th grade he learned, that’s the school system. University and college is different. He knows complex things and laws.
2(Tan(square -1) 1/2) = 4-radical(16 -(x-4)(square 2) is how you would solve the first one
im proud of myself for getting this fairy easily but its great a 5th grader can do these questions too
I ain’t got a calc on me so I’m not doing the rest
i gotta see his student card id bc ive seen Waterloo student ID's and they are BRUTALL 😭
the difference is that the engineer actually can use this knowledge and do stuff while this kid just bing studies 24/7 and probably never had experience with actual engineering or nun
and they send these geniuses into a iphone factory instead of prestigious positions they earn the right to have
The last question was so losely asked by saying the circle becomes rectangle with arbitrary cuts. Circle approaches to a rectangle with infinite cuts, and that means area is still conserved. Hence, L×r = pi×r^2. Therefore, L = pi×r Now, perimeter rectangle - circumference Circle is 2×(r+pi×r) - 2×pi×r = 2r =10.
Last question is vague on the term "longer".  In this instance it's asking perimeter of the rectangle vs circumference of the circle.
As a Chinese i am proud 😂😂i study in china and i know all the answers in a glance I'm a sixth grader so these are easy but i learned these in sixth grade BC I'm using a IB class so yeah 😂
Bro i need to see your junior year and senior year picture of waterloo
Bruh why did you put Mao portrait so casually in the background 💀
I was ecpecting the problem from the preview  "I'm disappointed and my day is ruined" © The guy that reviews burgers
Sheldon's technique for solving linear equations will work regardless of the tuples. Not so for the 5th grader
My son is in 3rd grade and he already knows how to use the quadratic equation to calculate 2x^2-5x+3=0
" he wrote so much " imagine being told something like that by a five grader
There are geniuses in every country, there are kids already studying at a univetsity
the kid and i had the same reaction to the first hard question 🤣 "Oh the Chickens and the Rabbits Question". It's a classic Maths Olympics question at like grade 2 to 5-6
The last question was not formulated correctly because if we’re dealing with vertical length then it is not the rectangle that will be longer but the circle as the circle’s length is 2r and the rectangle’s r. The only case where the rectangle is longer is the width and the ratio will always be pi/2, no matter the circumstance.
I could solve this as a kid because I took a hell lot of after school classes. But with the education systems now, they could easily solve it with just the schools' curriculum.  Also the difference in solving as well. When I was in first year high school and lower, I could solve these easily because I thought about the logic and the tricks behind it, I didn't have to care about equations, just simply took it apart and put it back. But as I got higher in education, I was taught about the equations, the roots and the explanations of why it could be solved by using those "tricks".
The fact is both are Chinese and they are highlighting there Chinese education with competiting from a Chinese 😂😂😂
I like that they add “Chinese” to let you know from the start he has Asian parents 💀😭
When I saw that the kid understood when the guy spoke the instructions in English, I knew the kid is going to smoke the guy...
I am indian and i we study all these questions in 6th class but i was never good in maths in my childhood 😢
1/6 x 24 /64 (2/3 +1/6) = 5/96 they both got it wrong You always go from left to right with multiplictions and divisions.
a. He is smart for sure,  b. He will probably go to a us/can university if he is still good at 18yrs old,  c. The pic of Chairman Mao on the wall is hilarious
I really wanted to listen the reason behind why circle will have the biggest area
15:40  Based on the image, it looks like you're referring to unrolling a circle into a nearly rectangular shape by cutting it into triangular sections. This suggests an approximation of the circumference as the length of a rectangle while using the radius as the height.  Given: Diameter of the circle = 10 → Radius (r) = 5 Circumference of the circle =  2𝜋𝑟=10𝜋 2πr=10π  Interpretation from the Drawing: When the circle is "unrolled," it forms an approximate rectangle where: The length ≈ circumference = 10𝜋 10π ≈ 31.42 The height = radius = 5  Answer: The rectangle will be approximately 31.42 units long, which is significantly longer than the circle's diameter (10).
Bro the first hard question brings back so much nostalgia. Trying to figure out how many chickens and rabbits there are.😭😭😭
the final question is actually the easiest one but the question is worded really badly when it says how much longer would the rectangle be from the circle it means how much longer would the perimeter of the rectangle be from the circle's circumference i first thought it asked how much longer the length of the rectangle be from the circle's diameter
i was so confused on the first question, because i grew up just saying american continent, not separating it 😮
To be honest, I lost faith when you said top 50 and waterloo and I started remembering the video where MIT and Harvard grads couldn't light a lightbulb.
the last two questions are too easy for asian kids tbh, you can just instantly know the answers for them.
11-12 5th grade  preschool 1-5 years old  day first attended Texas school... I don't know that information is trashed and deleted. Thnx 4 t memories.
watching this with severe dyscalculia is so interesting bc i couldnt keep up with the math questions at all until i solved the rabbit and chicken one within their time😮‍💨
And as an Indian, I don't remember I have learnt it 6th grade!!
@HosungHang       even before fifth grade my parents made me learn all planets  name, states, continents and oceans and many more general information. I was naturally not good in maths but I was good student despite being a government school student in bihar.  Which board student you are.
Exactly. We also got 5/96. I dont think any of them in the video smart.
 @kayukthebruh5601  okkkk let me just turn in my diagnosis papers and get good at math 👍👍👍don't know what you're trying to say with this LMAOOOO
Looks like they’re both wrong on 1/6*24/64(2/3+1/6) Someone correct me if I missed something, but the answer should be 5/96.  Explanation: Since multiplication and division get the same priority in PEMDAS, they’re done in the order they appear from left to right. That means you’d have to combine (1/6)*24, then divide 16 from that, and finally multiply that answer to (2/3+1/6). That all simplifies to  4*(1/64)*(5/6)=(1/16)(5/6)=5/96 Another way to think about it is that division is truly multiplication of the reciprocal, so dividing 64 becomes multiplication of (1/64). So there’s no way 64 should multiply to the (2/3+1/6). Either way, that kid did great! Impressive to beat an engineer.
for the 2nd question, nitrogen is learnt in middle school chemistry…a 5th grader don’t have chemistry😂
I think the eclipse question should be Lunar eclipse. This is when the earth is in between the sun and the moon thus blocking and sunlight from reaching the moon thus appearing 'invisible' while solar eclipse/partial eclipse is when the moon is in between.
isn't that universal that in the first math class learning circle, the teacher will show you a circle cut into many pies and ask students to put them into a somehow rectangle shape? you can touch the two radius as extra perimeter.
The final question at 15:45 is a bit misleading since he uses the word "rectangle" which implies 4 straight sides.  This would only be a rectangle as the number of slices of the circle approaches infinity.
The question is too easy, try to ask the international school in China. The result will blow your mind!
3:20 save the money and let my parents to have a chance to take it, lol
I swear I got 5 over 96 on the fraction problem if you follow order of operations correctly. And also the correct answer for the eclipse question made no sense with the wording.
From Einstein's theory of relativity we know that light travels at a constant speed, regardless of whether the light source is in motion or at rest, and that the speed of light is approximately 300,000 km/s.
i actually thought the last one was a common problem no?
11:46  Here's how I proceeded: The perimeter of the square is 4S and that of a rectangle is 2(L+W). So, since L>W, it means L=W+e where e>0 and if e=2f where f>0, then 4S=4(W+f), and S=W+f, i.e. A square=(W+f)(W+f)=W²+2f+f² and A rectangle=(W+2f)(W)=W²+2f=A square-f². And because it seems that from parallelogram to rectangle to square to circle the shapes become more and more "rounded" and because a parallelogram is a squashed rectangle and that the more you squash it the closer you get to a (straight) line, it seemed to me, intuitively, that the shape with the maximum area would be the circle and the shape with the minimum area would be the parallelogram.  And of course you can apply the same method to express the perimeter of the circle in terms of W and f in order to determine the expression of the radius as I did previous to extract C, and then its area and compare it with the other two. So you'll have: Perimeter of the square=perimeter of the circle, implies that 4(W+f)=2πr, i.e. r=(2/π)(W+f), i.e. A circle=π((2/π)(W+f))²=(4/3.14)(A square), and because 4/3.14>1 it follows that A circle>A square.
10:20  the answer is. 5/96. They supposed. To divide 4 out of 64 before multiplying it with 5/6
Those are classic problems for elementary school level math competition back in China. 😂
64(2/3 + 1/6) does not imply parenthesis, it's written 64 x (2/3 + 1/6) - Answer 3/40 is wrong. It's 5/96.
They actually made the questions be able to solved by a 5th grader except air one since chemistry comes in middle school in my country too. I would probably be able to solve all of this since I was solving similar questions except partial eclipse and geography ones because our geography education sucks. Like 7 continents small to bigger aint no way. Which ocean is biggest I couldnt even list all ocean names because no one taught to me at that time.
Correct me if I’m wrong but the answer to the last question is incorrect. From what I’m understanding the question has you cut the circle into a large amount of slices so that when rearranged it approximates a rectangle, once done it’s asking you for the difference between the circle’s diameter and the long side of the rectangle.   Since the area of the circle must be conserved and the slices all have a height of r (the radius, in this case 5), the long side must have a length of πr. If you think about it the rectangle can’t be 10 longer since that would mean the rectangle is 20 by 5 (the radius) this comes out to an area of 100 which would be the area of a square with side length 10 not a circle.
Maybe I'm overthinking it, but my 6th grade son and I, who are in Canada, were playing along with the video. When we solved the multiplication and division problem, we got 5/96. Shouldn't we calculate the part inside the parentheses first and then proceed from left to right?  I just want to help my child understand, especially since math education here…  Really love your videos. Keep up the great work!
Tell me what is 1÷2x? No one interprets that as (1÷2)x. It would be stupid to do so. 2x is implied to be together. In fact, implicit multiplication being grouped together as a singular term is exactly what we do for fractions. 1÷½=2 is the correct answer with 0 controversy. Absolutely no one interprets that as 1÷1÷2=½. In which case implied multiplication such as 2(3) should be grouped together as it makes sense to do so.
 @Mlittlelittle  yes - 5/96 correct! I am so surprised that people do not know the elementary rules of mathematics. If there is a task, for example, 8:2x5 - this means that FIRST you divide 8 by 2, and only THEN multiply the obtained result by 5.  A farmer has 8 small potatoes and plants two in a hole, each such bush will then yield 5 potatoes. This is what a math problem literally means. You must NOT break the sequence of mathematical operations. The correct answer is 20! NOT the fraction 4/5
He sure does write like an engineer, gotta get those small!
as a chinese person, i can confirm that in fifth grade that i learnt this
The first math question is literally 5/96, no one thought about that? Pleaseeeee tell me that I am not the only one who noticed that 1/6 * 24/64 * 5/6 4/64 * 5/6 1/16 * 5/6 = 5/96  10:03 - I think you forgot to put bracket on the picture that you upload (64(2/3 + 1/6))
Yoo I love this , the boy is good speak more Chinese,  am glad that my chinese level has improved I could understand what the boy was saying 😊😊😊
don't know how I ended up here but I did enjoyed the video🤗❤️
Wonderful. I'm mechanical engineer too (we are smarts, believe us) but this is a very good different approach to usual methods. May be we always go the equations very fast.
There was a missing word (Perimeter) from the last question. It should be like “how much longer will the rectangle perimeter from the circle” or similar.
You wrong for putting a portrait of Mao in the background yo.. lol
I can hear the sound of the dude's pride dropped to the floor and shattered 🤣🤣🤣
Malay: Bahasa Melayu saya tak pandai tapi saya belajar bahasa Melayu sejak kecil bagai melentur buluh biarlah rebungnya. 中文： 大家好！我是一位马来西亚华人我来自雪兰莪。 English:this video is pretty good! Keep it up.
I dont know, mate. Did they go easy on you in uni? 😂
The wording in the last question was very poor. With the wording: "how much longer will the rectangle be than the circle" it's already confusing since in 2D space we generally talk about the height and width of figures, or the length of sides. If you assume it asking for length of a side implies it's asking for the difference in width, based on the width being the longer side of the rectangle. Then length rectangle is πr and length circle is 2r, difference is π-2. So rectangle is π-2 longer than circle. But what the boy actually solved for was the PERIMETER length of both figures, which obviously is the diameter if you think about it for more than 10 seconds. I'm from Europe btw.
I enjoyed this video so much! Thank you!  Learning at school in China is a totally different level. That's soooo different! Wow... (I've worked in Chinese school)
A major difference between Chinese education and others is that the Chinese education is a lot more about parametrizing and remembering problems, rather than understanding and applying methods to solve unknown problems. This kid is smart, no doubt, but he remembers exact same problems and does not really work methodically using generic solving techniques.
Teach him about the stock market 📉 and he will become a millionaire at a really young age 😂😂😅😅 im jealous
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together.
@  Agree with you, I live in Asia and in our school we are showing everything important with brackets, never forgetting about it. When I saw how lil boy wrote the equation I saw brackets and realized that maybe in America, they are just not writing them
​ @Spvkul mathematics is the SAME on all continents and in all countries. If the equation is not written without extra parentheses, then this is how to solve the problem consistently. They both gave the wrong answer. Must be 5/96
The last question seems inaccurate. You can’t get a rectangle by cutting the circle that way. You will instead get a shape with curly edge.
Bros fav subject is soon gonna change in 7th grade frr😂😂
Believe me in India not all students take study seriously but those few who take it seriously these questions are easy
where is this engineer from lol, i am a 10th grader in india and i solved it using simple logic too how didn't the big guy get it wth
I feel like the last question is an allegory for western education versus Chinese education. Western education stresses approaching every problem from the bottom up, starting with the nitty gritty details and formulas, and Chinese education stresses taking a step back and looking at clever ways to simplify the problem. One is not inherently better necessarily as sometimes there is no clever simplification and you have to get really in the weeds to solve it, but when there is it is really helpful to find.
Engineer diploma and day graduated needed for proper payment with the brain of a 5 grader. What a good idea?
Not the parents and little sister peeping in the back lol!
for 1/6*1/64*(2/3+1/6) should be equal to 5/96, i think an incorrect assumption was made using PEMDAS; you should not always multiply before you divide, but instead work from left to right. multiplication and division are in the same "boat" as are addition and subtraction, but once you have it in these terms (multiplication and division, or subtraction and addition), you should always work left to right
We can see a different ways to solve each problem. By the way, in my country we are focusing in formula and meaning of numbers more than tricks. I have a lot of entertainment watching this ❤🎉
I am a 10th grader of india  But this kid is mind blowing I solved all question with them but  Last question get out of my mind 😂  Wonder how smart are chinese kids 😮
The thing is doing it the way the kid does it is mainly memory give him something new and he won't know it. Its still very impressive though no denying that
Mit mathematics class was what I started learning in my first year of preliminary school in China. That's how the average Chinese can create an open source llm 10 times better than o3
In my chanel "progresser vite", our therory is that there are no intelligent students, there are students who work and others who work less 👌
if you keep dividing the circle into smaller and smaller pizza slices  and add them like shown in the video it eventually becomes a rectangle. Basically  the pizza slices become so thin that they resemble a straight line and the curly edges smooths out. This method is used in some textbooks to proof that area of a circle is pi times radius squared.   Integration can be used here.
Then you need to cut it to infinitely small pieces to make a circle become rectangle. Then how come an infinite amount of infinitely small pieces can add up to a finite number? You would need calculus to understand that. This is way beyond elementary school student's knowledge. A smart element school kid will look at that image and ask: how is this possible?
 @sven9528  It is taught in my country without calculus first. Basically they just tell you the concept and just asks you to accept  it. It is explained later with calculus. China seems to be doing the same thing. I remember reading in a textbook that "it will be explained to you in detail in upper classes".So the elementary student is expected to memorize it as a fact even if its not explained and has many questions.
Nope. They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together.
Me: Gets my pencil out ready to solve the problem and cook 5th grader boy: Solves a ridiculously complex yet super easy and obvious question in one second 💀
Wait till little fella learns about N20 xD But what's up with the Chairman Portrait in the back?!
for some reason i just find the big mao picture in the background hilarious
Im weak in math lmao no way i can solve these questions😂and hes chinese obv he gonna win💀
10:44 the question is not right. In partial eclipse you can still "See the moon" but as it states only partially, in solar eclipse you "can" also see the moon because the sun hides behind the moon, on the lunar eclipse you can fully see the moon.
Well, thankfully i'm less overworked than a 5th grader and still get the same amount of food on my table, lmao.
Shows the difference between the two school systems. In China, the kids learn the tricks to solving complex problems from a young age, almost like a party trick. However my guess is that they don’t go deep into the reasoning why until later on, where as in the US, the emphasis is on understanding all the reasons why it works the way it does which takes significantly longer and has a higher level of entry, however once it’s understood one can rationalize and reason why a problem set is done the way it is. Still, a very cool video!
you did NOT put a picture of Mao in the background, unbelievable
I remember those times that showing the actual computation or equations you gained additional point/s to your final score😂
The last question I too didn't get it I had to watch him explain it 😂
The last question was difficult because of the way it was worded. `"How much longer" will the rectangle be "from the" circle`?
15:42 In India we solve this type of problems in 5 or 6 grade. But according to new education policy. I think the syllabus was reduced.
Doesn’t know what nitrogen is but knows that shit js crazy 😂
Just give the input and he'll give the output without processing 🫡
Another thing: Australia is not part of 7 Continentals, Oceania is the correct one (consist of Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and others)
As a Chinese student, this video won’t be like this if you pick 1000 RANDOM students then the results will be100% different
If THIS is a 5th grader, I can’t imagine an 11th grader or smth in China.
the question is not much specific so the answers can be solar eclipse or partial eclipse.
wait im pretty sure he went to the same middle school as me!
Having lived in China and other countries that have strong Chinese heritage I'll only share this:  Yes the youngsters in these countries will outperform the youngsters in the west in the context of education. Yes the top brightest ones in China are scarily good at these things.  But fast forward 30 years, and nothing is left of that lead. I literally have to re-educate Chinese software engineers that took Math and Physics in uni on how to apply linear algebra in 3D engines or even robotics pipelines. Education is not the thing that keeps you at the top. Personal curiosity is. And the west is a million miles ahead of China when it comes to letting people develop and exercise their personal interests.
Bro really graduated from the University of Waterloo as a engineer 💀💀💀
A) was correct answer. Solar eclipse ==> Moon cant be seen
☠️ "there is no way we would do that in highschool" I just wanted to defend the growth man and now there is no defense for his. The last question was fairly easy and we in Serbia dod it in 3rd-4th grade for sure. The issue he made is he didn't make a good picture because picture is 60% of the task if you compare the picture of the kid and his huge difference.
Obviously the engineer won, impressive job by 5th grader. Wish the video had correct answers for each problem.
as an engg. I understand, yesterday I forgot 2 was a prime no. 😭
I am a Chinese student, this boy has a good understanding of the foundations he learnt in grade 5. But we cannot clearly determined he is smarter than this man. In primary school, the teachers will teach all these stuffs as showing in the video, and the Chinese students should take a lot of practices on these problems especially on math. An example is the problem of rabbits and chickens, the Chinese students should take tons problems of it which makes getting familiar with this kind of problems. Therefore, they will definitely solve these problems way more faster than many American students. So the speed and logic he showed were only the results of training many times, and did not mean that his own thinking level derived the answer to the question. In addition, I also want to point out the problem of the video. It says it wants to test the smartness of these two, but many problems are just testing their memories of knowledge instead of thinking and deduction abilities. Like the question < what is the speed of light per second>, if you read the book about it, then you can answer, otherwise, you can just do nothing with it. Therefore, we cannot just precisely determine who is smarter by this test, we should see how will this boy’s math ability develop in the future especially in the high school and university.
Bro the fraction is wrong😂 ⅙x24÷64(⅚) (24÷6)÷64(⅚) 4/64(⅚) 1/16(⅚) =5/96  Look at a calculator Use PEMDAS CORRECTLY
The kid is not smarter. I can tell the emphases on the education are quite different. The last question is about gemometry more than calculas.
I dunno if im built different or smth but I got every question right without anything to write on (im 13 in america)              also W video, you earned a like good sir
He must have already learned it in school so it’s easy like that cause I was like that too 😂😂😂
19:58  me, pretending to understand after the teacher explains the equation to me for the 7th time
Did I miss something in my school? Since when is Europe a separate continent? With the same logic we can also separate India as a distinct one, cause it is located on a discrete tectonic plate. This is geography, not ethics or linguistics or anything else
Additionally, this video also lists several problems of calculating multiplication and division of numbers and fractions, these kinds of problems also cannot clearly show his smartness, these kinds of problems are also testing your proficiency to these problems instead of testing your deducing and mathematical ability,
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together. Also Casio calculators would give you their answer.
The first of the hard ones was just grade 10 math (impressive for the 5th grader to get it)
the way his name sis Sheldon like Sheldon cooper (smart kid)
if this was based by timing, so whoever solves first gets the point, the 5th grader would've won by a margin!
Both the Engineer and the 5th graders both violated the PEMDAS or BODMAS rule. Straight to math jail. After the parenthesis the order of operation is from left to right, the correct answer is 5/96 not 3/40.
Say thanks to him bro he need his teaching fee's 😂
Chinese kids are very hard working but this is kind of sad at the same time because you know the kid has done so many questions of the same kind already
Hey the answer is wrong to the question "When will the moon not appear during this phenomenon"   Solar Eclipse: The moon doesn't appear in its usual form because it's positioned in front of the sun, blocking it. However, you can see the moon if you're viewing the eclipse safely. Lunar Eclipse: The moon can appear not to be there or very dark when it's in the Earth's umbra. In a total lunar eclipse, it might look red but not disappear entirely. Partial Eclipse: Solar: The moon partially covers the sun, so it's visible but not fully blocking the sun's light. Lunar: Part of the moon is darkened by Earth's shadow, but the rest remains visible.   The question is asked under a false premise.
Of course his name is Sheldon, what other name would he have?
I already knew the answer by the time I read “chinese”
The last question is in 7thgrade  but it's hard for my experience
As an Indian i would like to appraise little brother's dedication   and also his imagination and logical thinking . Don't need to loose hope or getting sad about this every one graps concept  in their own ways and own method which they are better at and from my observation Chinese students are emphasized on statement based and logical thinking type  question on various practical application and demonstration in a playful manner more where as Indian student's are focused  are focused on general topic's and theory of mathematics and other subject rather than making a logical thinking during early school  mindset creating a phobia for mathematics which i once faced  but after further practice i cope up and yeah that's pretty nice initiative for China to implement such method and i would like to really develop this interactive habit in India too in their NEP . REGARDS . At  last every one can get better at anything if they have desire and proper attitude for it .
I’m in the 8th grade doing advanced math and I have been humbled😭 I got most of these questions wrong. I can’t even do fractions I COULDNT EVEN ANSWER HOW MANY CHICKENS AND RABBITS THERE WERE
Man! I solved the last question within 4 min . BTW i am a 10th grader from india and i honestly admit ,that kid is better than me😂😂
From his answers it looks like he already heard this questions before, i am talking about school lessons, I think they just memorise alot, and when get ‘similarly’ question use their ‘logic’ like muscle memory
HELP!! Question to the math pros: 10:01 Isn't it 5/96? Like the part "64(2/3 + 1/6)" equals 64 * (5/6).  This means I have to calculate 1/6 * 24 : 64 and then finally *5/6?!  This would be 1/6 * 24 [=4] : 64 [=4/64 = 1 /16) * 5/6 = 5 / 96
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together.
I haven't watched the video yet, but I put my money on the Chinese 5th grader.
A 5th grader defeated  sheldon!!  Is it the end of this world??!!!😂
16:07 if we talk about length ist the rectangle 5.7cm longer than the circle because it would be rectangle length= circumference of circle/2
That's why you never judge a book by is cover 😂
I already knew who the winner would be beforeeven click the Play button -  using logical deduction, like the last question. And i knew i would lose to both. I was right on both, using logical deduction.
15:43 How tf did bro get this wrong, its literally just the two extra sides 😢.
I am pretty sure the boy’s math skill is beyond what is tested. I come from mainland China. Like the last question it is a no-brainer to most of the good students in China.  I am aware of how good Chinese students in mainland are when it comes to math, science particularly exams. However, as someone who went through traditional Gaokao path and ended up at a prestigious university. I must say being able to score high in the exam doesn’t mean you are smart. Doesn’t mean you will outperform in an engineer/research position because most of the efforts go to finding the right problems. And many of these problems are way harder than exams. To solve these problems, oftentimes starting from the very basics and building up like what the engineer did is the way to go.
The last question can be improved by asking for the increase in perimeter (to avoid any confusion) as the stated question may mean what is the overall width increase. Thank you for sharing!
Took 3 calculus classes in college here in the US. Basically the same if not easier shit we did back at 4th, 5th grade in Hong Kong. Was bottom 3 of the entire grade of 300 people, then graduated with 4.0GPA in the US LOL
Dude i am a 6th grader in india and this stuff is like i studied on 4th
Now i suspect that DeepSeek is just a few hundreds of Chinese employees providing answers behind instead of the real AI hahahaha
cuz korean kid studies more and does high school math at the age of 12. more faster
So basically the last one from what I can tell is basically the number of triangles in rectangle shape is the same as the number of slices in the circle so how ever many triangle slices in the rectangle is the circumference of the circle so I am assuming that the rectangle is double the size of the circle so 20 instead of 10
When he said hard question i will be expect integrate or calculus
I believe they both got the math question at 10:05 wrong. I believe The correct answer is 5/96   1/6x 24 / 64 x 5/6 4/64 x 5/6 1/16x 5/6 5/96
That kid speed explains why China's advancement is growing faster that the rest of the world
Having a portrait of the Chinese Hitler, MAO  thats CRAZY!!!
School smart dosent make you smarter if you Can’t Think out side the box of what you have learn from teachers and books ! 🤷‍♂️. 😂
I'm at 8th grade, but the rectangle-circle with 5 cm diameter is pretty easy. If you don't know how it works, basically you count the perimeter of the circle resulting in 78,5 cm. You divide  it into two, because the perimeter of the circle is ONLY the side across the  corner, the other sides norr the corner doesn't count. If you put it more simply, the rectangle has two long sides, one long side equivalent to 1/2 of the circle's perimeter. Which if you put it even more simply, the difference is the diameter, and always the diameter.  But why is that? One shorter side of the rectangle equals r of the circle. The rectangle has two of those shorter sides, so there are two r's, resulting in a diameter. The total of both the long side's perimeter of the rectangle  is the circle's perimeter. The only difference they have ifs that rectangle has two additional shorter-sides. And each of those shorter sides is the r of the circle.
Wow, I am from 5th grade and this kid is smarter then me.. like how?
this is simple is just asking questions that are on the Chinese study plan
Completely misunderstood that last question, had to keep rewatching the kid's explanation then realized they were asking how much longer the perimeter would be.... I thought they were asking how much longer the rectangle would be than the circle which woulda been 5*pi-10.
his mama there to make sure he scores 100 for the video
Do you know why you lose? No top student in class goes to University of Waterloo
The 5th grade rely on memerise to solve problem, the engineer use math actually.
Crazy, all I’m taking up to is pre calc and that’s it
They used pemdas incorrectly by solving multiplication before division instead of treating multiplication and division as equals and solving from left to right. Very common mistake due to how we are taught pemdas but you must remember that it is parentheses, exponents, then multiplication or division depending on its order from left to right, then addition or subtraction.
no they are correct because the 64 is connected to the parenthesis therefore they must perform 64(5/6) = 160/3
I’m a Chinese 1st grader and I know the answers faster than the engineer 😅
Yeah he’s smart I learnt this in year 5 but forgot it 😂
Why did i think it would be some advance cal or smth 😂
Of course this Chinese passed in University of Waterloo bro, the university is literally hell according to memes
american education is memorization and regurgitation. everywhere else in the world is understanding and logical problem solving
So.. the perimeter of the circle is 2πr.. while the perimeter of the rectangle is 2(r+πr)=2r+2πr ..   So ans would be 2r+2πr-2πr=2r   That is what he said.. he only needs the diameter(2r).
14:35 genius type vs smart but methodical. well done 5 yo :)  these questions were too easy though except the last one took some thinking. probably like top 5 us uni would be comparable.
Dude it’s a misleading thumbnail. I wanted to see them solve the problem in the thumbnail.
15:25 This question confuses me.  If you took a circle of a diameter of 10 and cut it into infinite pieces around the middle you would get a rectangle with a height of 5 units and an area of 78.54 units (taken from the circle). The length would then be 15.71 units, 5.71 units longer then the circle. Why is the answer 10?
Sheldon solves like an american, le 5th grader has a completely different thinking process
Yea boy now come in india and solve jee advanced maths and physics questions at 17 years of age😊
Children’s memory are better that’s why it is better to cram as much math and logic when one’s youbg
For the last question it is how we derive the area of the circle, as said in the video one size is r, and the two horizontal make up the circumference of the circle so the horizontal is 2pir/2=pir. Now we multiply the vertical size and the horizontal size we get pir^2  For American math education, I have been to there for one year for highschool my impression is that it is very formulauic it is as if they don't have intuition for what the math means and what they are doing. For me the formula and precise logic is always to express the intuition clearly. For example for this circle question one should have pictures in their head that they are moving the pieces around and it shouldn't be two difficult. Tbf it is why many people find mathematics dry, it is as if moving around formula without understanding their meaning, talking without knowing what they are saying, playing music but you can't listen to the music
This is staged. But the irony is that most Americans who watch this can't tell it's staged, nor can they solve the simple calculus-related problem.
Question was asked wrong lol, they meant to ask perimeter of the rectangle not the length. Perimeter is 10 units greater
That’s great Chinese kids are smart , now can we teach over a billion ppl some social  etiquette ?
we learn the stuff here in 6th-8th grade in turkey, but its kind of taught to us as memorization and not actually learning so i had trouble understanding the stuff i had to do 🤣🤣
Poor guy, we all know what happens to people at the University of Waterloo.
No one is going to say anything about the fact that Australia in NOT a continent? It's Oceania...
The circle one is simply wrong.  The answer is closer to 5.71 than 10. Given that:  Height: the radius of the circle (which is 5, when the diameter is 10) Length: half of the circle’s circumference   Half-circumference = (½) × (π × 10) = 5π The rectangle is approx 5.71 longer than the circle.
I used to live in asia and moved to the united states during middle school years and can confirm the education in the u.s is not as advanced
As prob the worst math student in China, when you ask which shape has the biggest area, I just said circle. Because that's geometry 101 in China. Why would you need to calculate that, that's literally the first thing they teach you in 7th grade.
Wake up at 6:30? Nap time? Sounds like a fucking dream except for homework
17:18 bro took longer than me it’s not that deep it’s just the radius and circumference
So is this competition between them an exemplary of using crystallized and fluid intelligence?
hold on i might need some hand holding because when i was figuring out that last question i took the diameter to figure out the circumference which is literally just 10pi. the rectangle will be half of this in length which is about 15.7 meaning the length would be about 5.7 more.
Bro the math in gre test is same as the ones we learn in the middle school
to be honest the questions were too easy im 1 year older than the kid and still got them all right
The sycophantic Mao Zedong picture in the background seems wild to me
Because engineering education is not about remembering what you were taught in 7th grade, but finding answers from principles.
Bruh, smart test containing 7 continents as a question I quit this video
10:00 acording to me my calcualtor and chat gpt this should be 5/96 Beacouse ⅙×24÷64(⅔+⅙)= 4÷64×⅚= 1/16×⅚= 5/96 A 3/40 will be good answer if question will be:⅙×24÷(64(⅔+⅙)) Beacouse you cant do first 64(⅔+⅙) You must do first ⅙×24÷64 (Sorry for my bad english)
I don't think that last answer is correct.  If we take a large number of slices of a circle, with the radius of 5 (diameter of 10), the circumference is 10*pi.  If we put all of the slices together, the width will be roughly the radius, which is 5.  These radius width triangle edges will form the inside of the rectangle angle.  The outside circumference of the circle will have to be split in half, where half the slices form the top edge of the rectangle, and the other half of the circle forms the bottom half.  So it will have a length of pi*r, or 5 pi.  That is roughly 15.8 in length, or about 5.8 longer than the circle.
We do those circle questions for fifth and sixth graders in India
Hey, can you do another video with him? Ask him to do more math
Partial Eclipse, lunar eclipse and solar eclipse? What is going on here? We have Partial solar and lunar eclipse where the moon is partially red or the moon covers the sun partially. In full solar eclipse the moon entirely covers the sun and in full lunar eclipse the entire moon appears red. I did not understand what is going on with the question and the answer.
Sheldon didn’t use his peek, if he had he would’ve won, maybe… (also typo at 3:45 for peak instead of peek)
Bro china definitely has technology we have never seen in our life. Not to mention they literally have a billion people.
The engineer solved it, the kid probably know the theory behind it from school, every asian school teaches that. Here in pH were encountered that.
Can you do a sequel with and Indian or a Romanian middle schooler? I promise you won't get disappointed :)
Was the rabbit and chicken question actually difficult or am I somehow out of nowhere intelligent???? lmao
The picture in the back feels equivalent  to an american having a Donald Trump pic in their living room lol
Isn't the circle question is wrong because when you cut it up it does not actually form a square, since the outside is curved and will never be a straight line even if you take the smallest cuts or take the limit. Therefore the shape is not a rectangle and the formulas and properties of a rectangel will not apply to it.
Depending of where you live, the earth is divided in 5, 6 or 7 continents. It is not 7 continents for everybody.
Imagine if the little kid was from US , he would have been so overconfident and he would also said so many negative things by now.
The questions posted in the video are not even hard questions for Grade 4 students in China. The grade 5 math is much harder.
18:15 The question was not how long is the rectangle the question was how much "longer" is it. This is very bad wording but a correct response would be either it is pi/2 times longer or (5-10/pi) units longer. the answer does not require the length as the question does not ask for it... come on I though this guy studied engineering and a student should know to answer accurately. in a test this would be marked as wrong as there was no answer given. One interpretation could also be: The rectangle is 1/2 times longer than the diameter.
The math problems were too easy for a mechanical engineer or even for a good student who's in high school. Though they are fair for a quite clever 5th grader
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together. Casio calculators would give the answer 3/40 instead of 5/96.
Question should be whether you were taught that in 5th grade.
Bruh these are simple JMC level qns for the harder ones
Did I missunderstand the question?  How much longer rectangle would be than the circle?  Well, circles length in any direction would be equal and would be the diameter, 10.  Length of the rectangle would be the perimeter divided by 2, since that's what it would approach the smaller the slices taken from the circle would be.  Therefore the difference would be 10*pi/2 - 10, that would approximate to 5,7 rather than 10.
I think there is a mistake in the last exercise it so close to his answer P=2l+2L if we say l=5 so L= 10/2(pi-1) because P is also 10pi
can u make a video on 5th grade kids one form china vs one from india ...you will get more views on that video .
Its not mostly about the countries its more likely about schools and their want to make the children learn .I being in Pakistan as 12 grader remember learning algebra and Geometry harder and better in 5 grade in a international school than in 9 and 10 grade in a national school because schools like these my high one just persue making money as their responsibility nor making the students learn. credits be to the teachers and schooling systems and most importantly parents for making students of highest level because many a times the students talented in studies a left apart by the school systems not letting the students talented in different subjects compete up to their potential hope that a system is made where you can graduate in  subjects in half a year or less than that in that specific subject and continue the rest as is❤❤❤.
In America the kids are confused which gender they are, in China these kids can solve nuclear physics equations
I knew I was dumb, no this dumb. I don't know no math 😂
关于月食那道问题有疑问10:50  solar eclipse 日食 Lunar eclipse 月食 Partial eclipse 偏食 其中偏食与total eclipse全食相对应。 题干说看不到月亮，指的是月亮位于地球的阴影之下，无法反射太阳的光线，而月球本身不发光，所以会产生天狗食月的月食现象。
If u think you're smarter, there's always an Asian smarter than you🙆🏻
11:16 i definitely know that the moon is less visible in a solar eclipse i think there was a mistake
not to brag but if i got a test he got normally id probably get a 100% score rate of 0/100
People have to cut the engineer some slack. The 5th grader is actively reviewing this while the engineer finished college and hasn’t seen this in a while. Anyone who has gone to school knows how fast you forget things that you don’t actively apply. Not to mention what he studied in college has nothing to do with the questions asked. The Chinese kid is still smart af though
The questions need a bit more clarification, especially the last one as by longer it should say if it means longer in general (the width) or just the perimeter but yea that kid is really smart :D
11:05 Huh? A partial eclipse is just a solar eclipse where the moon doesn't completely align with the sun. In all 3 scenarios the moon is visible (even with a complete lunar eclipse there's enough scattered light for the moon to still be visible, despite being completely within the Earth's umbra).
I am more smarter than you guys and I am in sixth grade now and I live in India 😊
when will the moon bot appear during the phenomenon will be Lunar eclipse
excuse me as I go back to eating my jar of paste.
Bro i was also answering all those questions and i got all right except one🎉
10:14 y’all got the answer wrong it’s 5/96… you solve from left to right, you don’t multiply the 64 with what’s inside the brackets because there’s division before the multiplication from the left come on
im a 5th grader in us and got all of the them correct
Area of rectangle should be equil to r^2*pi=25*pi. And area of the rectangle is should be a*b. Then a is equil to 5(radius) b is equil to 5*pi. Answer is 5*pi lol
That kid is smarter than the entirety of American gen z high schoolers
I don't think the answer to the first medium-level math question should be 3/40. The "64" is outside the brackets, so it shouldn't be operated on at the same time as the part inside the brackets. It seems the two players made this mistake by incorrectly placing the result of the brackets in the denominator. The correct answer should be 5/96. I hope the author discusses this issue with them later, especially to that little boy. I just don't want him to make the same mistake in his future exams! :)
Imagine learning in China and then discovering AI to help boost your level and understanding creating broken individuals in terms of pure intelligence.
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped togethe
​ @MasterlyRex8789 they simply made a mistake when they broke the sequence of actions. They gave the WRONG answer
What does the eclipse question even mean? A partial eclipse of what?
As an asian I think the first one is the hardest question
So, you take South America and North America like different continents? Here, in South America we say that continents are: Arctic, Antarctic, America, Europe, Oceania, Asie, Africa.
in the math question after the light speed one, both of them seem to get the wrong answer. i put the question both into my phone calculator and into the desmos calculator with adequate parathesis and both seemed to get the same answer as me (5/96 or 5.28333...). from what i can tell, their mistake was multiplying the 64 with the 5/6 even though you would divide the 4 by 64 first according to PEMDAS.
Wait, in China they learn there are 7 continents? In Brazil and some parts of Europe we learn there are 5
I am from china and i surpassed most of my classmate
at 10:03 that problem is incorrect that division symbol is problematic because you cant know if it is 24/(64(2/3+1/6) ) or 24/64 multiplied by (2/3+1/6)
I swear theres always one chinese kid in class whos better than you at EVERYTHING
Easy.Imagine you have a rope and you close it, you can generate any shape but you observe that the largest area is obtained when you understand it in X and Y, but if you understand more in X you lose in Y, therefore The figure that fulfills both dimensions to a greater extent is the one that is distributed the most in the area, that is, a circle. The distance from the center to its circumference is the same.Will it be similar for different dimensions?
10:01  they are both wrong here's my answer base on PEMDAS  1/6x24/64(2/3+1/6) is  15/(18x16) which is 15/288 not 3/40
Depends on where you got your education from, chinese kids are smartttt brooodaaa
10:22 They are both wrong, it's 5/96  Also, the last question is worded wrong. The way it is worded would suggest the answer to be pi/2 in every case. What he meant to say was how much longer is the rectangle's perimeter than the circle's but he asked a different question, meaning the kid was wrong. The kid probably got the answer that was expected from the dude asking the questions because he has seen the correct question before. This makes you wonder if he's really as smart as portrayed or if he's just seen a lot of these questions before.
for the last question wouldn’t it be more correct to just say that the rectangle is 2r or d longer than the circle. Like the kid saying 10 is correct but that’s assuming the diameter is 10. I’m confused on how the grader automatically said he was right by just knowing the answer 10
I don’t think it is called length since he explained that you plus 2 height of the rectangle
I was having a hard time understanding what you mean by how much longer. You should call it the perimeter.
For the circle i just guessed that it has no edges, therefore it has the largest area 🤣 im 6th grade lol
Uhh... the answer to the last question is wrong lol. The answer of 10 is how much larger the perimeter of the rectangle is compared to the perimeter of the circle, but that's not the question. The question is "how much longer will the rectangle be from the circle." The answer is the length of the rectangle minus the diameter of the circle, which is 5π - 10.
This is like Deep Seek (5th Grade) vs ChapGPT (University). Who is better? 😂
It's an illustration of 'China Speed' no nonsense, just do it
I can confirm that kid is not that smart among the overall population from my early experience in Chinese school. I had classmates who were doing real analysis and college level physics in middle school.
meanwhile the "smart" threshold for an american is naming three countries!
Why is Mao “psychotic” Zedong photo in the background? 😂 Communists, so smart and yet so lame…..
For the chicken and rabbit question I solved it like the boy. I imagined that there are 10 chickens. That means there are 20 Feet. We need to exchange a chicken for a rabbit until we have 32 feet. 12 feet to go and 2 feet per head/animal to add. 12 devided by 2 equals 6. That means there need to 6 rabbits and 4 chickens. Reading this took me longer to get the answer in my head XD. Getting the answer this way took like 10-15 seconds.
It doesn't matter, none of you will have money to buy a house
that eclipse question is wrong no, is the lunar eclipse at most
The guy got wrong answers because he thought too much.The scope of their learning is too different,so it is unfair to compare them both. But if you want to compare ,then do it with a kid around his same grade.
Young people in China revered Mao as a cultural figure rather than a political figure.
Chinese propaganda be like: make every american student feel stupid and only show your best of the best students instead of a normal kid.
last medium question 1/6 * 24 / 64(2/3 + 1/6), I think we're supposed to calculate 1/6 *24, which is 4, and / 64 first, then it would be 1/16 * 5/6 equals 5/96. Both calculated 64(2/3 + 1/6) first. not sure if that's correct(?
last question we can like equal the areas but since the two long sides of the rectangle are equal to the circle circonference we need the two other side to be radiuses for this to work, we have pi times r squared is equal to pi times r times x, x has to be r, so the short side is r
12:11 both bro, overcomplicated it. A square is a rectangle and both of those are parallelograms. Circle is the odd one out. Doesn’t make sense, not really, was it right, yes.
This makes sense because most of the math Olympics are won by the Chinese or Iranians or Russians.
im a typical chinese guy, accepted all chinese education and i went to a top 10 university for my undergraduate and im now doing my phd programm at a top 3 university in China. my wife is also the same situation as me that she went to the same top 3 university since her undergraduate and finished her phd programm. i can say we are some sort of so called successful students, even my wife is more successful than me. but to be honest, i dont think my wife is smarter then me. i can tell it from our phd programm and its she has learnt more of those little tricks like the kid in video that made she did her college entrance exam better then me. she said its not she knew how to solve those programs, instead, she has already done those programs in the so called exercises sea strategy before the final examination. what i wanna say here, we the population do have some people being so real smart as you guys see but its just the minority. the majority of you guys considering smart is for our hard working...
math is important, but science (biology, chemistry, physics) is also very important. Both should be EQUALLY learned in my opinion, it can give a clear idea of what a person would like to learn as a future endeavor. Personally I had A's all the way until Calculus, so engineering for me was not the right path. But I later learned about biology and physics. I love these topics and I'm doing very well (kind of) with them. I'm glad he has the ability to handle math but I hope he also gets to learn more about other STEM fields.
I mean most of the math stuff they learned I did in like 7nth grade in the US
This video after i failed my last math exam is NOT a good combo, fuck youtube for this 😭
Is the eclipse question correct? When partial eclipse, the moon still appears. Or was it meant to be "the full moon"?
Lol that's exactly why you are wrong about China. This kid is a normal kid.
 @lofi_Insomnia_  If you watched the same video as me, it was said that he was top of his class.
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together.
just dont give the sterotype like chinese are good at math or chinese are so smart any more, plz. when we were elementary or middle school students, i and my wife were not good at math at all, campared to those math top classmates.
Am I the only 14 year old who knows that the speed of light is 300,000 km per sec...😅
Damn I feel good, because I haven't solved a logical or a math problem I had to think about for quite some time, but I got by logic the answer to the final question that it's twice as long as the diameter and when the Chinese kid's answer was 10, I thought I had figured out the wrong answer, but when he explained it I realized he meant the exact same thing as me in just another way, so I got the right answer:D   It is twice as long. Just in this case it's d+d or 10+10 if you want to be specific, but the question was phrased "How luch longer is...", so I figured saying twice as long is the right answer😄 His thought process was quite similar to mine (more complex though and he obviously understands the problem on a much more fundamental level than I did for thinking about it for a couple-few mins), but I haven't been to school for years and haven't really used my brain to the fullest of it's capacity in some time😅  But I gotta say the kid seemed very intelligent, wise for his age and polite, so obviously he was raised well! I wish him the best!
10:04 this question is kinda bad, it’s improper algebraic rigour as the way it’s written does a poor job of describing wether 64 is part of the brackets as if you put a times sign between the 64 and brackets a different answer is achieved to what you claim the answer is, this is why most people would use two sets of brackets to display the division, or fractional notation. An answer of 5/96 wouldn’t be stupid to get from this (I study maths at Oxford so have a level of expertise)
It is just some concepts behind the circle, actually u can cut a circle in to infinite pieces of sectors to form a rectangle, i am a hong kong student ,we hadn't learn these things and which is out of syllabus but those are very basic things, lots of student would not bother to understand maths,they just copy the formula and substitute values in it without using there brain😂,i love math, so i will try to learn the logic and concept myself without teacher teaching
Bro for you take make this video he had to waste 30 minutes of his nap time rip:(
I'm surprised the kid doesn't already speak English. I guess that comes in the 6th Grade
In india it is almost the same.  I was deriving (a+b)² and many other formula when I was in grade four
Well chinese students are way too quick and good at maths,  they have exceptional skills..i teach chemistry though but you know it has many calculations based things and i myself got surprised everytime when they present their ways
15:41- Why my answer involve 5 Pi 🤔 The circle is 10 and rectangle is 5 Pi long.
why is no one talking about how the moon DOES indeed appear during a partial eclipse? the correct answer is A
Usually start at 1st grade and apprently he can understand some basic converstations, as the first question shows. However the chinese students aren't so well on speaking english.
Indian 🇮🇳 students laughing in the corner with JEE, NEET, UPSC 🙂🌚😏💀🥀⚰️
don't know why but feeling very proud of myself that Im smarter than a 5th grader 😇
light has a speed of 299792.458 km/s so they have it wrong. not exact enough
The math problem at 10:4 is wrong the awnser is 5/96.
“I have been educated by Chinese education, I can say that Chinese education is the best at the same time is the worst education”.  4 aspects in doing all study things ::::: memory, practice, understanding, creation.  1, Chinese people have a cultural characteristic which is to work hard. So, generally, they will spend more time in memory, and practice.  2, China has a tremendous, enormous, prodigious …amount of people , they have to beat others to earn a better life. 3, for most of things, memory and practice is enough like Software ,mechanical Engineer.If u are not a researcher,u don’t need creation. (Math,  physics etc). But, there are two big problems for Chinese students, 1, they learn& memorize a lot (uncountable) that they will not use, and they learn those things is just for beating others.  2,education in there is to select people ! It’s not to let everyone be successful, people are like “mineral “.
Not so fast boys! Light can't go 300 thousand km/s, not even while driving a Ferrari top speed. It's a bit slower. By its very definition.. you know...
Oh if the kid glows up, he's gonna be a really hot guyyy.
This is the difference between Asian Americans and native Asians. LoL When we Asian Americans say "we're not that smart in math" we're comparing ourselves to Asians in Asia, not the general population in America.
What the duck? In the world has only 5 continents: Africa, Asia, America, Europe and Oceania ("Australia") and for some continents the Antarctica is an extra continent (i mean 6 continents)
Good video, but some questions are not asked correctly. The eclipse question: what is a partial eclipse? Of what? Partial eclipse of the moon or th sun? In both cases, the moon appears. Unless this is a trick question, there is no moon in "partial".  Tthe last question isnt asked properly either, a shape cannot be "longer" than another. What youbmeant to ask is how much longer is the perimerer of the rectangle vompared to that of the circle.
habibi come to india these ques are nuts for a fifth grader in india
You set yourself for failure, my friend. If you win: I beat a 5th grader in Math. If you lose: I lost from a 5th grader in Math.
@Kold001 Well I'm certainly right, I know that much. The slow part you could perhaps slooowly explain it to me
 @MarkoPetejan  so your telling me that a ferrari is faster than the speed of light?
could also be the chinese language - it's more efficient and logical ( it has to) - the reason why Leibniz referred to it as "god's language" - also maybe why "chatgpt" thought in chinese to answer a question
You combined North and South America. I can assure you that there are 7. Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia.
@Control_Ace  WoW, i think we use differents education systems to learn about continents and countrys.
18:55 Given that the diameter of the circle is 10, how much longer will the rectangle be from the circle? 15:44
Bro the chicken rabbit question is in my competition and im 4th grade😅
I was smarter than him when I was in 5th grade 😂😂😂🥇🥈🥉🏅🎖️🏆
My kid is in 5th grade and solve this one different from the ppl on this video:  1/6×24÷64(2/3+1/6) = 4÷64×5/6= 1/16×5/6=5/96  My kid told me u solve first parthesis then ×&÷ in the order it have been written.
The question at 15:40 is just worded terribly lol, like how does "length" translate to "perimeter of the rectangle"?? If we are talking about length of the rectangle it would be pi/2 times longer (if length is understood as the horizontal width of the rectangle) than the circles diameter.
I’m a Taiwanese 5th grader and I’m wayyyyyyy smarter then THAT kid😂
It's not that Chinese students are particularly smarter tho, they're just put through the grinder very early on, exploiting their academic potential.
Well, I have a doubt. The moon doesn't appear in the solar eclipse . Am I wrong?
19:52 bro is cooked 😭bro was so lost even after the explaination 😭its joever china is defo win the WW3
11:20 Wait a lunar eclipse is when the earth blocks the moon they both got it wrong the answer was B?
That math problem was just straight up wrong. It was in the form x÷y×z, and both interpreted it for no reason as x÷(yz). 1/6 × 24 ÷ 64 (2/3 + 1/6) is a sloppy way to write it precisely because "÷" is an ambiguous symbol in this case. It could just as easily have been interpreted as (1/6 x 24 ÷ 64) (2/3 + 1/6) instead of (1/6 x 24) ÷ (64 (2/3+1/6))
A bit unfair at least give them a chance should be putting one of the scientists that work at nasa against him an engineer is too easy 😂😂
My Chinese nephew was already able to program and create a game on his own when he was a kid.
ATTENTION!!! The answer to question when does the moon not appear... pretty sure it is solar eclipse. Anyone catch that?
I knew about nitrogen in 5th grade because I’m in 6th grade now…
Im a 5th grader who learns Chinese in elementary school, and i thought about saving my money and wondering how to invest money        USA
The answer for the question in the thumbnail is 0.64 square units   I am a jee aspirant Please correct me if I am wrong  🧑‍🎓
What are the chances a smart MECHANICAL ENGINEER  who graduated with TOPS is named sheldon??😂😂
In Asia, this is wayyyy too easy not to brag but anyone in my class could solve this
10:02 wait…  I reckon this one should be 5/96🤔 Unless you forgot to put on the braces on the blackboard.
so this guy graduated with 3.7 bananas out of how many exactly?
Are we all gonna ignore the painting of a mass murdered who killed more people than hitler and even stalin in the background?
I got 5/96 on the first equation they did. not sure where I went wrong since they got 3/40
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped togethe
​ @MasterlyRex8789 you write nonsense, in mathematics the sequence of actions is important, not what you came up with.
@ Go on and explain where exactly did I write nonsense. Point them out 1 by 1. Is it when I said 1÷½=2 is never 1÷1÷2=½? Nope that is a fact. Is it when I made the claim that 2x is a singular term? Nope that's a fact according to algebra. In algebra an equation like 2x+3y+5 is considered to have 3 terms. Not 5 terms. Clearly showing that a term like 2x is considered to be grouped together and not simply 2*x. And no one interprets ab/cd as (ab/c)d. That is a fact. Everything I said so far is exactly how math works.   And then with this, I am making the argument that since fractions are clearly a singular term, as well as implicit multiplication such as 2x being a singular term, it makes far more sense to evaluate 2(3) as a singular term rather than two separate terms.  If you are so hell bent on following orders of operation strictly, are you going to defend interpreting 1÷½ as 1÷1÷2 then? Because the rule of PEMDAS here is already being broken by fractions. So are you going to claim fractions are wrong? Please go on.  So yes. PEMDAS is already being broken by fractions. That is unless we accept the fact a fraction is a singular term and implicit multiplication is also a single term in which case no rules were broken.
 @MasterlyRex8789  you write complete nonsense! 🤦 Open your math textbook and carefully read the rules. The problem is written as it is written. Therefore, there is NO need to invent any extra parentheses. Mathematical operations are performed strictly from left to right. There is NO precedence of multiplication over division. *don't answer until you read the math textbook.
 @nataliya6093  Then go ahead and address them one by one. Do it. Not to mention you wrote something completely irrelevant to what I wrote. Address fractions and address implicit multiplication. I didn’t mention multiplication at all. I mentioned implicit multiplication which is different as something like 2x is considered to be a single term according to algebra. Just like how a fraction is a singular term. That is unless you want to claim a fraction is two terms as well in that case you would be completely wrong but I doubt you’d want to do that.
 @MasterlyRex8789  the fact that you do NOT understand math and continue to shame yourself is very funny. 😂🤦 Only one correct answer - 5/96.
@ And once again, pointed out nothing in what I've said. Again, address fractions and addressed terms like 2x. Even Chatgpt despite "strictly following orders of operations" will claim 64÷2a when a=4 is equal to 8 and not 128.
 @MasterlyRex8789  surprise! - is 128!! NOT 8!! First you need to divide 64 by 2, and only THEN multiply by a. What result will you get in the example 8:2x5?
10:40 None of these answers are correct, the moon still appears during a partial eclipse, it's literally the same as a solar eclipse just that the moon is a bit to the side, thus it is partial. It still appears.
Hey man, what's the point of putting a picture of Mao on the wall????
problems in this vid: mid math problem is a poorly formed math expression and will give multiple answers even with pedmas, although i agree with how they did it.   the moon question, you need to define "appear" because it's involved in all three although you physically can't see it in C perimeter question, sheldon puts definitions for perimeter and not area, meaning he came to the correct conclusion but not in the correct way.  xianxian doesn't show any work and his explanation was skipped over but what is given is correct - my explanation is that it's similar to a packaging problem and a sphere can hold the most volume/space therefore a circle will have the most area per perimeter, you could also show this with the formulas for area of each and substitute in the perimeters (like what they did but neither proved it). final circle question is also poorly worded as they seem to be trying to compare circumference vs perimeter but "longer" to me would mean you're putting them up against the same coordinates and seeing which goes further by how much on the x axis, i got about (because pi) 5.7 longer for the rectangle. half the circumference which is pi*r (5pi) then minus the diameter 10 is roughly 15.7-10 = [5.7] again kid doesn't show his work, do they not prioritize this in china?
The last question is extremely poorly worded and should be: "Given that the diameter of the circle is 10, how much longer will the PERIMETER of the rectangle be from the PERIMETER of the circle"  In which case the answer is (r+r+(pi*r)*2)-(2*pi*r)=2*r=10  Otherwise it's easy to assume the question is asking how much longer the BASE of the rectangle compared to the DIAMETER of the circle which would be (pi*r)/(2*r)= pi/2  This is a case of an engineer trying to answer an extremely poorly worded question versus a 5th grader regurgitating a memorized answer.  Don't get me wrong, Xianxian is an extremely bright kid for sure, and Sheldon should have come up with one of those 2 answers, but that last question would send any engineer worth a damn scrambling because of how poorly it's written.
I miss the good old primary and secondary school where we learn actural logic. Now we just memorize formulas  Edit: Daim i didnt watch till the end and they repeated basically the same points lel
Mad respect to the engineer, Chinese math is just basically every Asians math bro, stop the overreaction.
The last question shouldn't be a hard question. I did it in my head. Anyway, props to the kid for being this genuinely smart and hard working.
Im in grade 2 and class starts at 8:30 and ends in 1:20
The math question would be fine if everyone accepts implied multiplication to be grouped together. However apparently people don't which really doesn't make sense since there is zero controversy in 1÷½=2. No one interprets that as 1÷1÷2=½. An equation like a÷bc, should always be interpreted as a÷(bc). The purpose of PEMDAS IMO is to simplify math so that we don't need to write millions of parentheses. Something like 8-2+3 would technically be ambiguous without PEMDAS. Without PEMDAS, we would need to write parentheses such as (8-2)+3 or 8-(2+3). However with PEMDAS, the default for 8-2+3 is (8-2)+3. Using the logic of PEMDAS being created to simplify math, it would make zero sense to interpret a÷bc as (a÷b)c because there is a much better unambiguous way of writing it. That being ac÷b. Therefore the default for a÷bc should be a÷(bc) since there is a better way to write the other interpretation.
Tf I am in class 12 and I don't know any of those questions answer, Am I doomed.
Hey bro I believe the answer to the 2nd math question is wrong, according to BODMAS it should be 5/96
Erm actually 🤓 the speed of light is  300mill km a second not 300k a second
10:15- my answer is 5/96. How come they solve the 64 (2/3 + 1/6) first? I thought we should solve from left to right.  This is the same argument for 6 / 2 (1+2).
10:18 math answer,  I could not able to understand. .. My ans is 5/96 and their ans is 3/40.... Can anyone  pls tell me how they did that .
Is no one gonna talk about how Australia isn’t a continent 😭😔
😂 if you even ask person like me who is studying in 10th grade i can't even answer some of the questions like that circle sectors one 😅 literally i am poor at maths
but also man seriously how are Asia and Europe not the same continent
Hear that part about the noon nap?  Biphasic sleep cycles.  It's just common sense.  But you'll get fired for it in America.
10:00 Are the order of operations not universally agreed upon? The answer is 5/96.
Wow. Last question is not written very well I'd say. I thought it was asking for the length of the rectangle vs the diameter of the circle (like how many times longer) which gives a ratio of pi. Took me 2 times to listen to the kid to understand you were asking for the "Perimeter" of both shapes! Anyway, I hope not all US engineers are like this.
Maybe due to mistranslation, but I found that questions are formulated poorly, like the eclipse and the final ones.
speed of light is not 300k k/s its 300k m/s so you need to convert it... NOBODY SHOULD GET A POINTTTT
Am I tripping? There is no way he didnt know the last one right? I don't see anyone calling that out so I am genuinely confused. Even if he used the formulas and somehow didn't notice that the rectangle was made out of circle parts he should have written down: Circle Perimeter: pi*d Rectangle Perimeter: pi*d/2+pi*d/2+d/2+d/2 and then realized pi*d cancels and hes left with d as the difference. He has literally written D=10 on the left and then D = 2pi+x (what is x? we will never know) which makes no sense and 5+b=2pi(5)+x is also clearly a wintrade no? He basically says a+b = D which is not a formula that anyone ever learned.  Not trying to take anything away from the kid. I'd say even given his stricter education from China he's straight up pretty smart, allowing him to understand mathematical concepts instead of memorizing. I am just unsure if my judgement on the last question is correct or if I am somehow out of touch.
The areas of the circle and rectangle are the same.  The height of the rectangle is 5, so the length is 5pi.  The rest is algebra.  Guy is thinking too hard.
This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) all over again. In which the answer is either 9 or 1. 9 is what you get while interpreting 2(3) as two separate terms in 2*3 where as 1 is when you see 2(3) as a singular term due to them being implied multiplication. In my opinion 2(3) should be interpreted as a singular term. Why? It simply makes much more sense to do so. WIth something like 1÷2x, no one interprets that as (1÷2)x and if you wanted it to mean that, there is a much better way to write it. Being x÷2. Therefore the default of 1÷2x should automatically be assumed to be 1÷(2x). PEMDAS's existence IMO is used to simplify math equations so you aren't writing millions of parentheses. In which case it would be very stupid to interpret 1÷2x as (1÷2)x since that is such a convoluted way to interpret that when there is a much better unambiguous way of writing it being x÷2. Not to mention, grouping implicit multiplication as a singular term is literally what we do for fractions. There is 0 controversy over something like 1÷½. Everyone agrees the correct answer to that is 2. There is no one claiming this is actually 1÷1÷2=½.
your answer is correct and they both got it wrong because they broke the math sequence... what a shame. This is acceptable for schoolchildren, but indener has NO right to such mistakes
dum kid it is 300Km/s. The speed of light is roughly 300,000,000 or 3M metres per second. he asked for km because it would be too long to write. 3M to km/s would roughly be 300K(thousand) Kilometres per second which is what they got.
I did Chinese public school math from G1 to G8. But UofWaterloo math is not easy man… unless if u r not from the math faculty…
how did he became an Engineer. And also how did he not know N2 but know how to solve the diameter circle problem
i can confirm he is smart by looking at his forehead
Not bad for a 5th grader. Probably wouldn't win me though.  It would take at least a 6th grader😅😅😅😅❤❤❤❤.
Correct me if I am wrong but In the last question it's a good approcimation but you actually have to calculate the distance because the slices are not perfect triangles (of course when number of slices approuches infinite the answer approaches the approximation) anyways now my answer: n = number of slices angle = 360°/n r = diameter/2 c (side of a slice) = √[(2r^2)(1-cos(angle))]   (simplified and edited cosine rule) l (the length of the rectangle) = c*n/2  I also didn't fully understand what it needs to be bigger then maybe because English isn't my first language so if someone could explain it to me that would be amazing.
The final ans should not be 10. Its pi*radius = 5π
Korean Duolingo alphabet  Chinese orders  English travel plans  Japanese orders
5th Grader wins red pocket money ❌ 5th Grader wins dinner priveliges ✔️
The problem with western countries is that we are complacent.  We live in the past.  That’s why 21% of Americans are illiterate and 54% can only read to grade 6 level.
Broo i answered all answer correct 🗿 i am a 9th grader 👍🏼
The circle problem requires NO education at all.  The 2 longer sides of the rectangle are made by (equal to) the circumstances of the circle.  The DIFFERENCE is the 2 shorter sides, that's 2 radius or diameter or 10.
I think you're overthinking it. As the number of slices goes to infinity, the total length of the  top+bottom equals to the circumference of the circle. That leaves the 2 sides of the rectangle as the extras, which is 10. In the end, the area of both of them should be the same.
 @PipinoExcalibur  what are you on about ? I meant the background , pretty sure that’s up there just for the video.
nga are you slow its 300 million meters per second not 300k meter if you use km then its 300k you dunce
Seeing this I can't tell if China's schools just throw this at kids so that they get smarter faster without reason or that the fact that children's brains are still developing allowing them to learn slightly better then adults can because their still developing and so that it'll stick to them until adult hood because they learned it at such a young age. I'm also curious on how they teach complex math to 5th graders because I still don't understand even when the kid explained it 💀💀
I mean if you do some differential equations, vibrational dynamics, physics, literally anything instead of geography and basic geometry engineering will demolish.
15:43 what does it mean: how much "longer" will the rectangle be from the circle? the diameter?
Really badly translated questions, the last one doesn't really make any sense. The "perimeter" of a circle (instead of the circumference of a circle) sounds weird by itself but the last question doesn't even clarify "perimeter",  it just asks "how much longer will rectangle be from the circle". Maybe in Chinese it makes sense, but not in English.
As an indian i would solve all this but i need the knowledge from plus ine and plus two.
I have a friend who’s in 7th grade and is in college level in China😂 I would never understand😢
Video is interesting...but I feel sorry for all those Chinese kids. They are studying day and night and they have zero childhood and happiness in their life...then they will graduate and work as much as possible and force their kids to study as much as they did. This is life of a robot and not life of a kid.
Shouldn't the speed of light be 300,000 km/s² though? Didn't see that square.
I think thes mean smth diffrent because 10 would be wrong its 5.7cm
The mother standing right there for the whole video is annoying. Let him be alone for a while, control freak.
I got 50 so am I smarter than both of them?
What i learned about chinese is that learning is a competation to them..they let  their children learn as many and as difficult as they can thats why  children are focus on studying and they frgt to be a kid cus all they do is study..and chinese children need to go to school..there are consequences if the parents dont let their children go to shool..chinese kids are as busy as gov. employee even saturdays they have  lessons to attend..chinese people want their kids to learn as many as they can either academic or sports or any lessons like dance lesson,piano lesson,karate lesson etc.
I would probably get far cuz i studied in india, but I would lose at one or two questions
it's not just how smart the kid is , it's also that american education is shit 😭💀
Wait a minute, i didnt get the question on the eclipse During solar eclipse moon is there During lunar eclipse moon is there During partial eclipse (both lunar and solar) moon is there  What am i getting wrong
PLEASE READ MY COMMENT,, I BEG U TO DO SO😢😢.  l literally know differential calculus , topology and l am in grade 7 ,,, l literally know college math…but l Wouldn’t except myself to win against this fifth grader,, my brain thinks in a much much more complex manner just like Sheldon’s brain ,, we have a lot of information in our brains but this kid uses pure logic in everything,, he thought of it in a rational way ,, despite him knowing less than Sheldon,, Sheldon has bookish intellect, the kid has street smartness,, that’s what it’s 😅😅😅😅like for that chicken and rabbit problem Sheldon used 2 variable linear equations,, just like l would ,, but the kid used logic ,,
BODMAS dosent exist for u guys ?  How did they do multiplication before division ☠️
I learned the same thing in Singapore. Idk if it is a reference from china
10:02 it's incorrectly notated. Should've been 1/6 * 24 / (64 * (2/3 + 1/6))
I am a 10th grader and my score was 43. Not bad ig
only the sun position is fixed - moon and earth can switch position
@firstlast-pt5pp  and how is that different from other types of eclipse  I think I still don't understand the question. What was it about?
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together.
 @MasterlyRex8789  My math teach once explicitly pointed out that it's not a single term, unless brackets are added. I don't like the 2x example, since 2x is like any another number, like 13 let's say, and it's not an expression that's to-be-evaluated.
 @MasterlyRex8789  1÷½ translates to 1/(1/2) which simplifies to 1 * 2, that's why no controversy arises. the division line serves as an implicit bracket of the whole fraction in the expression, like absolute value does for example
if the task is written without parentheses, there is no need to invent them. the correct answer is 5/96
America needs to up its game bc most of its kids are still watching Skibidi toilet
Tube being filled 3/4 with water in vertical position. What is the height of water if the tube being put in horizontal position? 😊
To me is normal I’m taiwanes so yea but we work to 10am but not 11:30
My tcer told me that what me and my friend study right now same as when she was in university😭🥹
5:35, nitrogen is the tropospheres gas in the atmosphere. In our bodies, it is 78% so we have it in our bodies also. Its valence electrons are 7, and when you want to balance it with other chemicals like oxygen(o2)you could put (g) since its a gaseous element
Me silently reading the comments in the comment section knowing it’s all gonna be prejudiced and unintentionally racist shit: 🗿
First question and already 1 controversial answer and 1 mistake : America is considered to be a single continent and Australia is a COUNTRY part of the Oceania continent… waste of time !
Does the 5th grader skin animals alive or does come later in life?
Just a fyi, a lot of plp who get bacherlorette/ the equivalent in china do delivery jobs.
If you consider this with an indian kid who is like above average its like 8th grade or wait for me i believe i am above average im in 10th rigth now but i belive 9th standard me could do that and i doubt if 8th standard me could do that or not but he is definately way better than me at maths
at time 10:01 : You written the expression for us(viewers) in the wrong way. Without parenthesis after the “24” the order of operations are different from that the players have assumed. at time 15:43 the question is wrong… that should be exposed as “how much longer is the perimeter of the figure(that is NOT a rectangle) than the lenght of circumference?”
Isn't the last question should be 5pi instead of 10 ? because if the diameter is 10 then the radius is 5, meaning the area is 25pi the rectangle have the same area and we know the shorter side is 5 so the longer side should be 5pi. Am I missing something ?
How about china needs to up its game because of its kids have so much homework?
Oceania is a geographic region Australia is a country a continent is a large mass of land flowing on water and regarding America panama Canal separates both the continent
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together.
@ no. Nowhere in the world 1:2:2 is different than 1/2. The rules are explicit in every math course. If you don’t use the parenthesis the only rule is to solve division from left to right
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together.
The questions in this are no where near as complicated as the one in the thumbnail. Nice clickbait.
I do not understand the last question are they talking about the length or the premiter this answer is about the premiter not the length
is the answer 32/5 - 8arccos(4/5) btw (coordinate bashed in my head so it's probably wrong)
10:20 how can no one in the video or in this comment section figure out that this one is wrong as fuck. PEMDAS  mean  parenteses, exponents, multiplication and division, adition and subtraction, which means multiplication and division have the same value. So in 4 ÷ 64 (5/6), the parenteses was solved and now it just means that its a multiplication. So its just 4 ÷ 64 . 5/6. Then u need to do the division first and thats 1/16 . 5/6. Now just multiply them and its 5/96.
The only thing taht bothers me with chinese education is that children don’t learn any social skill, as so they might stuggle in life within a society. So what is the point of life ? Having a good time with friends or being excellent in school ? Personally i have my own opinion, although you can feel good with grades of course
I don't know what the world knows about Indians, but they are also almost at the similar level...😅
this kid so smart yet he can't speak english, I smell cap
15:40 i'm kinda confused about this question (english is not my first language) so is this question is asking like "How much longer is the rectangle than the circle?" or not?  If this is the question then isn't the answer like supposed to be 5.7?
10:21 im confused someone tell me how is it 3/40 and not 5/96
Did anybody hear the age of the child….. everything they told except the age of the child and adult… Adults age to know .. how much experience he has …. And age of child in 5 th Grade as compared to , at what age is a 5 th Grader in your country …. Mine … 9 years old in 5 th grade ..
Can anyone explain the answer of the last question but show calculation not just mental thinking?
They use implied multiplication which groups something like 2(3) as a singular term. This is the infamous 6÷2(1+2) question all over again. In my opinion, grouping 2(3) as a singular term makes more sense than separating the two as no one interprets 1÷2x as (1÷2)x. 2x is implied to be together. This is exactly how we treat fractions. 1÷½=2 is the only correct answer with zero controversy. No one claims it is 1÷1÷2=½. So yes I would argue it makes much more sense for implicit multiplication to be grouped together.
isn't the answer for Ques at 10:45 B) Lunar eclipse? Or I have the wrong concept.
my guy need to find the tactic behind the question but little fellow only need to remember the formulas and replace with numbers. that why he might be faster in mathmatic but his pure logical thinking is low
the 5th grader is smart ❌ the chinese education system is smart ✅
The question at 11:08 is that correct? or the translations are wrong?
lol am i dumb but how did he arrive that one side of the rectangle added to half the perimeter of a circle when its curved
12:57 i did it the same way and 15:48 is also easy i got tenimmediately im in seveth grade
What he learns in 5th grade er learn in 9th grade herre in norway.
10:22, hmm, doesn’t the teaching of pemdas say that multiplication & division are equal priority, so the standard is to go left to right? so wouldn’t it be 4/64 first, then multiply by 5/6
The hard 1st question i can solve (im 10) also chinese 😊
Guys these questions wasn't even difficulty, that american was just stuuuuuupid
Amerian schools, how many bullets does a ar15s standard legalized magazine hold. Well that depends on the state. Correct!!
簡立峰 Google台灣前董事總經理  ----- SITCON 2024 R0｜AI 時代 未來人才｜講者 簡立峰 / SITCON 學生計算機年會 /  May 3, 2024 ----- 簡立峰都在用哪些 AI 工具？為什麼未來是 1% 的 AI 超級使用者，擁有 99% 人的能力？ | 全新一週 2024 Podcast Ft. 簡立峰 / TechOrange /  Dec 10, 2024  全新一週
Hai yahhhh I’m Asian I’m 6thgrade already know all these stuff hai yaiiiii you need straight A and Doctor at age 13
it's wrong the continent they are: Africa America Antarctica Euro-asia Oceania
Okay, I understood the question wrong. But if you divide the circle into infinite equal sectors, the longth of thw longer side of tha rectangle should be πr.😂
Given the question that they showed us: the rectangle has sides 5 and 5pi, so the rectangle would be 5pi-10 units longer (looking at the 5pi side) and 5 units shorter (looking at the 5 side). The question is probably asking what the difference in perimeter is between the two, so the circumference of the circle is 10pi (2pi*radius) and the perimeter of the rectangle is 10pi+10 (5*2 + 5pi*2), so the difference there is 10. It's likely due to an incorrect translation of the question rather than understanding tho.
@ZeSpark  Thanks for the clarification! I was confused by some of the questions. Wonder how the two players could get the questions😂
😅 bro are you serious what is Oceania it is australia 🌏 and what is euro-asia 😅
bro, put Oceania on Google maps and you will see 🤣
 @Ro-koeduCation  is understandable. This is a geography and sociological definition. So sometimes, depending on the culture people don't like to be seen as equal. Like Europe and Asia, north and south America....  Both of them are in the same continent but for prejudice they are separated.
As an indian engineer,i can confirm that this guy is dumb and that chinese kid is normal ngl😂
This is called the chinese supremacy at mathematics. Gong xi ni xiao peng yuo!🫰🏻
10:21，两个都是错的 括号先算，但算完括号以后仍需按照乘除顺序进行 实际为(1/6)*24/64*(5/6)=5/96 如果你想要后面整块算在一起，必须用括号整个括起来 事实上这样的除号本身就属于不规范写法，应该使用分数线  10:48，定义不明 什么叫做“不可见”？看见暗面算不算可见？ 而且显然问题对相关定义就没搞清楚，C项“日偏食”本身就是A项“日食”的其中一种  11:49，这还用去计算么？？？？？？ 等周定理（Isoperimetric Inequality）：所有具有相同周长的平面图形中，圆面积最大 小朋友不知道这定理也就罢了，一个工程师不知道？？？  15:45，一眼就应该看出结果了，这就是正常人该有的反应速度啊，小孩子都能做到成年人更应该要做到 这还算半天可就丢人了！ 当然严格来讲拼出来的不是个矩形，有两条边其实是曲线
This is ok for entertainment, but in absolutely no way demonstrates anything regarding who is smarter. A kid who has never been exposed to specific concepts cannot respond them. The questions are completely non-sensical for the proposed goal. Thats why IQ questions are directed to problem solving, not to memorized concepts.
btw australia is a country, oce a continent w new z and au. both wrong whos the fifth grader?
the way s chinese students were trained, thats why some can't get to the top in some western school's programs which requires plasticity and innovative thinking for inventions
10:20, there you go, proof that the famous division symbol problem is easy.
China for the win, that's what happened when you spend in your youth...
Oh come on this was easy please tell me this was scripted or is it because i am asian too?
politics for 5th grader? why is the math class spread out multiple times in a day?
I feel sad that some of the community college kids are talking about some of their shame from community college and the old man is just happy to have completed school. He’s THE BEST
I want to see ivy league professors vs community college professors that would be cool :)
Cory is 100% that kid in high school that asks to compare schedules and judges you for not having any AP classes lmao
Good for Saul. No one is too old to pursue educations or their dreams
“Schools don’t define us, what matters is what we accomplish in life” Saul is a wise man
Is no one going to talk about how that one girl is working three jobs AND going to Princeton?! Her time management skills must be through the roof
When the old man said “but you’re the one who got into Yale, it came from here,  from you. Yale didn’t put that into you.”
ok but like actually imagine getting into all eight ivy-leagues like what? like kudos to her. that’s incredible
“You are what you do, not necessarily what you attend.” — Saul
Congrats to Saul for graduating college at his age. He is an inspiration for anyone to never give up.
That old man is 85? That’s crazy, I thought he was like 65
No one asked but I graduated highschool in 2020 with a 2.0 gpa (3.0 on a 5.0 scale) and a low SAT so naturally I had no choice but to choose a community college. I attended a community for the first 2 years, had a straight 4.0 for both years, transfered over to a private D1 university and had scholarships which brought my yearly tuition down from $55K to $20K. I've had a straight 4.0 since I've transferred over and I'm planning on going to law school after I graduate in 2024. So far, I was accepted into Yale, Columbia, Duke and UChicago. Would I be able to do all of this without my community college? Absolutely not. It's a wonderful stepping stone and I don't think anyone should be ashamed of it.
Saul looks 65 because you age well when you’re not problematic.
The girls that felt bad or embarrassed for going to a community college should absolutely be proud of themselves for their efforts.  Your worth starts with your self - and they are doing something very worthy.
my jaw dropped when Cassandra said she got accepted into all 8 Ivy League schools
When the Asian girl that got into all Ivy League schools says the college admissions system is messed up, you know it is
is no one gonna talk about how that girl got into all 8 ivy leagues
50 year old dude hangs out with 18-22 year old girls all day and is happy with his life? Do tell.
SuB SONiC it's weird but he probably doesn't have the intentions
he lived in a generation where college wasn't as widely participated in, and drugs had a huge epidemic. A family embarrassment was a drunkie with kids at 16. Genz marry less and go to college more so their family embarrassment is gasp community college
@idk You're saying that as if we don't know gay people exist
@idk lol instead of him saying this is true, he still isn't inclusive with his statement but more so exclusive.. and that's fine we already know where he stands in line and everyone doesn't have to include gay people either just saying. However it should simply be read as: he probably likes going to school with young people, like any other older human male. THATS IT!
He is 85. He don't need to find a job or meet people in the field. That's the difference.
Because he's old enough to know that a "fancy" school is not what people think it is. It's just a prestigious name.
I am in the older mans shoes. I am happy I got to go college and happier that I graduated. My self esteem is pretty healthy because I know I have something more valuable than gold. I was afforded the chance to go to college and for that reason I am very grateful.
 @subsonic9854  it's because you are sick you think all people are sick like you and run after their desires   We have this saying in Arabic The eye reflects the nature of the beholder So if you expect he's there for that it means you would be there for that too
 @realsh7992  I apologize, you're right. Perhaps I'll go to an Arabic country, convert to one of the popular religions, and ask my four wives to teach me how to not run after my desires.  Maybe they can all teach me at the same time :D
 @AZ-eq5wk  naw man. I said "girls", not "young people", because that's what I meant.   If you attempt to overthink a joke to sanitize it like that clown above, you'll end up with stuff such as, "like any older hetero, bi-, or homosexual human whose capacity for sexual arousal hasn't declined due to psychological or physical issues, yet can't find sufficient release in his existing relationship(s), monogamous, state- / religiously-recognized or otherwise."   If anybody has a problem with my original comment, then they are the problem.
 @subsonic9854  Well... I dunno if it’s any other “human male” but... What I’m saying is it was a HinTING generalization. And aye,I’m not stopping you from making racist comments or being rude and you can definitely do that behind the screen but refrain from doing that in real life because.... well if you encounter the wrong person.... Youll get folded my g
 @subsonic9854  I’m not saying your wrong because In some aspects your right,but did you ever think that somebody misunderstood your comment do to the general incantations?... so that makes it an unfair arguement pn both sides,so instead of making racist comments and coming at peoples,try to find the misunderstanding even if you think your right because that’s what makes the world the better place and resolves arguments. (I know it’s cliche plz don’t hurt me like you did to everyone else lol)
 @subsonic9854  Which proves my previous point that you did read,but everyone has there own opinion
I'm a mature student and I completely get that man. I just feel so proud to be able to complete by education I don't care that its not Oxford :)
The thing is that south asian dont know the difference between both and try to google it and still confused
Honestly and Evidently shows eras/ generations did not get the same schooling, if anything there curriculum were better, and keep in mind he is a white older men and baby boomer generation and veteran. They were and still are highly valued and were given more opportunity. So he can speak from a standpoint from a different opportunity and challenges in a different life.
 @angelicavences9357  good point, i always wondered why it's SUCH a big deal to go to a community college. it's still college
Its cause he’s lived long enough to know that college is just a small part of your life. As long as ur getting ur education u can do so many things after that actually define u more.
U stop gaf after a certain age. He's 85. Do the math lol.
Why he is the best? Can't u have empathy? I would be ashamed also. Wtf
I mean that's how people tend to view it. Tons of pressure is put on us in our late teens and 20s to accomplish great things academically, but at an older age people think it's amazing you're even trying because adults typically have more responsibilities like jobs and children.
@Tuperwear LMAOOOOOO I cant stop laughing at this dude!!! I didnt know people like you actually existed
 @mihantsafitiavana12  What is the difference if you're a "mature student?" Different requirements?
 @subsonic9854  something is seriously wrong with you in these comments. You need therapy
 @subsonic9854  what? He said there are people his age too. Let him be
 @subsonic9854  lmao you're getting ratio'd and questioned for your sanity, kid. Relax
That's an age thing. All of these kids are probably in contact with their highschool friends and probably compare themselves with them, cuz that's just how kids are.
 @snowcatapeller  Exactly.  I seriously doubt he's trying to hook up LOL
Tbh is because SMC is really a cool school so diverse and close to the beach. :)
We have some of the best community colleges in AZ. Now that I graduated from university, I wish I went there instead. It’s cheaper and they genuinely teach better. I luckily got very little debt from university, but also very little skill. I plan to go back to school part time once I get a better job.
Im a community college student and im not shame of it. Im proud that Im finishing my education ❤️
He's awesome says it straight. They are only institutions built to demonstrate your capabilities not a way to make you more capable
he’s literally older than them so of course he’s gonna be satisfied with just graduating but those college students are just starting their life out 🙄🙄🙄
 @subsonic9854 wow we’re in the times where you get shat on for seeking education
If I would have known better I would have gone to CUNY city university of New York, that was way cheaper than 12000 a year, I would have payed 6000
 @subsonic9854 Maybe finishing college was something on his bucket list. We don’t know, so don’t jump the gun and think the worst out of him.
Yesssss and I nominate my community college English professor! Changed my life!!!
Some of them might be the same professors. I knew professors that worked in two different schools
Leslie H We had an Ivy League Professor teach at my community college.
broo lol probably they are going to let you know to read chapter 1 before they go so they dont have have to lecture 😂😂😂😂
That would interesting because a lot of community college professors stop after their master's degrees. To be a professor at most universities, you have to have a doctorate degree or be researching and well on the way to getting to it. So that level of education difference and the values that they have as teachers to others will be similar but very different.
I have a community college teacher that teaches at UCSD too lol
I’ve heard some ivy and uc professors teach at community colleges too
Could be the same 🤷🏻‍♀️ I was CC and had retired Ivy League professor.
ohh me too! i would nominate my cc ochem professor! he's amazing!
I would half a year’s salary which group are actually better at teach
CC professors have a passion like no other. You can tell they love teaching, and the subject that they teach. University profs are more of a gamble. Some of them feel like they have this rep to uphold. Some, as educated as they are, lack teaching ability. Unless your university professor is teaching a subject that they absolutely love or have actual experience in, it's hard to find a good one.
Tbh, I suspect there'd be more crossover than you'd expect. I've been to a couple different community colleges (moved for work-related reasons), and in both places, a lot, if not most, of the professors at the community colleges also taught at the local university.
I'll tell you now, they're very similar. Ivy leagues hire good professors and many of them come from less well known schools based on their work, publishing, etc. A professor from my local public school was scooped up by Cambridge University's Philosophy department. Also, there are professors that work at one school and are adjuncts at other schools so there could be cross over. Some professors may teach at distinguished schools but enjoy giving the same education to students at more economical schools.
Yessss because I think there is no difference all the information we get In classes is the same most of the time. It just depends on the style of teaching and how hard the exams are
You'll end up with people wanting to help the world learn (most of my CC professors), and racist people trying to peddle outdated and disproven ideas (like Harvard's own: the late Samuel P Huntington).
Watch the movie Good Will Hunting.  Shawn taught at Bunker Hill CC, Jerry at MIT
I wish this was real omfg my community college philosophy prof would kick ass
there’s no way they could get ivy league professors to come on though
You may be surprised at the number who actually teach at both.
A lot of professors at community colleges come from high ranked colleges before
I once had a psychology professor who taught at Harvard and now teach at a community college. He told us that the reason he switched to community college was because at Harvard he has to do research thus he doesn’t time to focus on the main part of his job which is teaching.
Throw in some state school professors too just to see who they side with
 @NAC4U  haha my professor litterally taught marxism for a course and I had to sit through it
My community college instructors are amazing. Kind, considerate, educated, open, encouraging, but also clear about their expectations. At community college people get more one on one time, too.
My community college profs were WAY better than my regular university. Weird.
absolutely agree! my personal experience is that there are so many talented and inspiring professors in CC. I had many of them inspired me in many different ways. I also went to UCSD, not an ivy league but a school with good reputation and extraordinary study environment. my professors were also excellent. some of them really care about their students even though their classes contain about 300-500 people. but most of the professors i've had in UCSD were more focused on their research than teaching.
At my community college a lot of the professors come from the big universities near by.
went to cc and there was a bunch of doctors and professors from Yale actually
Community college professors are WAY better teachers than ivy league ones.
I'm sure that some of the professors work at both community colleges and ivy league schools.
Not really sure what would be the point. Presumably a CC professor is more of a lecturer, whereas a university professor is more research oriented.
I have taken classes at CC since senior year in high school, and still have even after i went straight into Universty after High school. Community college professors are lowkey chiller than university professors (idk about ivy league since i attend a regular university).
Yes. Then students of their professors etc. Big pic. Dawn weatherford class of sr tamusa 8 dont count
Doood a lot of my community college professors are legendary teachers. So good at what they do.9”
On one side people with suits, on the other people wearing shorts and stinking of patchouli candles and holding vape pens
 @friedsquidgames5584  I nominate MY community college Statics, Dynamics, and Engineering Graphics professor. Yes, one guy who taught me 3 different classes. He's a beautiful person.
I was a professor at an elite university.  The difference between a community college professor and an ivy-league professor is subtle.  First of all, there is a glut of highly qualified PhD's.  So, almost all professors are equally qualified to dispense received knowledge.  Tenured--emphasis on Tenured--professors at a CC will often give you close instruction and a one-on-one experience.  They will hold your hand through the learning process and make sure you will learn the material.  But that said, CC's often exploit non-tenured labor--people whom they pay 4K per class--often without benefits--so those people will be less likely to go out of their way for you.  Ivy League Professors are almost always the leading minds of their fields.  They are cutting edge researchers.  And they are hired not so much for their ability to teach or inspire but for their ability to open new intellectual territory.  So, you may or may not get the best teacher.  And you should ask yourself if you really need the leading researcher to teach you the basics of O Chem.  All that said, an Ivy-League professor with a great reputation will be able to write you a letter of recommendation for Med School or a PhD Program.  Those letters will cause people to stop and think twice.  People will know of their reputation.  And their word will hold weight.
I was surprised to see one of my CC professors (the worst one, imo) teaching at my university. But universities hire temp/assistant professors, and get staff/grad students to teach all the time.
That would actually be good and bad. Some professors at community college  were past university professors or other institutions.
No it would be embarrassing for CC professors. No one at a CC wants to be there if they could be at Yale or Harvard.
could be a disaster, you know generally an ivy professor would be there in some research. so there is a pretty big difference in their ideology
Well, aren’t community college professors studied at Ivy League before, they got the job from community college??
FUN FACT!!: A lot of Ivy League professors teach at Community Colleges part time.
Ivy league junior professors hate their lives, a lot of senior professors tend to suffer from keeping up with the jones ie other ivy league professors...
Speaking from experience (I'm a community college professor). We are better teachers, without a doubt. Most of them don't know what teaching is all about. They teach because they have to. However,  they are  way better researchers and academics. Sums it up, really.
Many professors from a university are actually professors at community colleges as their second jobs.
I had the same professor for accounting related courses before and after I transferred! 🤣
It is not the quality of education but quality of students many ivy leaguers are above the education system even above Harvard or MIT
It would be college professors, who dont teach and just have to be "published", and community college professors who teach all their classes. The ivy league schools, and general universities, are stuck in a 20th century mindset. Being published has little or no meaning in the 21st century. The proof of my claim, pick a studies professor.
The problem is a lot of community college teachers also probably teach at Ivy League colleges
 @spencer62321  Ivy league colleges use adjunct professors as teachers like all 4 year colleges. How much do the actual professors teach?
Idk if the Ivy League professors would be possible just because this series is filmed in California, but they could definitely do CC vs private/prestigious university profs
You’d be surprised how many ivy league proffesors and alumni teach at community college. (Often a go to retirement type job)
This is an incredible question considering many professors at prestigious universities are primarily researchers who only teach by requirement
Depending on where you're pulling from, you can have 1 teacher be both. I've had professors who teach community college and Ivy universities
Agreed. I had one professor who was above all. He knew so much and taught multiple courses. He showed me the difference between an ivy league professor vs a community College professor
There is already such competition between faculty and staff and pride based off where they work , so it would be really cool hearing their perspectives
i’m awkwardly attracted to trinity, help me find her on social media, day 1
A lot of community college professors do not have the same qualification since they only need a master's degree to teach there.
From what my brother has told me, they aren't very smart.
I mean, the Ivy League professors are mainly there for research so
In some cases the Community College would be better. Some who chose to teach at community college chose it because they wasn't to teach. They don't want to do research, be published... their focus is on the teaching and the students. My son had a fantastic physics teacher at our local community college while he was in HS. Now he's going to go to Brown, so he'll let you know.
Many Master Degree holders from Ivy Leagues unis are teaching at CC. And some poor TA teach because of their PhD on Yale and then sometimes at some local CC. So...that's no big diference.
My community college professors thought at Columbia and at Community College at the same time. Hahaha. I am not joking.
This comment got 54,000 likes 11 months ago.  They BETTER make this video man..
They are the same teachers lol... I had many profs working at a uc and a jc
they’re the exact same i go to housatonic community college and my professor also does work at yale...and it’s the exact same curriculum
That’s what it should’ve been, but I could see that being a possibly heated exchange too. Which would be 👍🏿
 @radish1395  actually, there are tons and tons of community college professors with PhD's, because there aren't enough full-time jobs out there.
Of course there will be exceptions to this, but community college professors have to have a lot of passion for teaching AND their discipline in order to stick with a job that will grind you to pieces. Every year administrations try to find creative ways to pay us less but get more work out of us, while giving themselves pay raises. We have to work harder just to pay the bills, resulting in less time to devote to continuing to research in our area of expertise. And good luck if you're trying to do this and have a family!   But we love our work, so we try to squeeze in the time (usually at the expense of sleep) to keep working at our discipline, as well as continue to improve our teaching. Because at a community college, your relationship with your students might be what helps them believe that they can do it. Often we're the ones helping them learn how to be a student, whereas the Ivy Leaguers are dealing with people who have known how to be a good student for some time, so I would bet they aren't as good at trying to make those diamonds in the rough shine; they're getting students that already have a high level of polish.   So what will you get with a community college professor? Most of the time, someone who loves their field, is excited to share that love with their students, and is passionate about helping students from all backgrounds find their way and succeed, but who also is tired and overwhelmed a lot, because they're spread thin having to do this for far more students than the Ivy Leaguers will. The average class load for a full-time professor is around five classes per year, maybe four, plus time spent in research, and possibly some committee service. One semester I had six classes between my three schools, I served on a committee (still do), my back had gone out and I was in 24/7 excruciating pain for 9 months, and I was the one because of our work schedules who had to get the 3 month-old and the 3 year-old ready and out the door to go to daycare, then bring them home at the end of the day, feed them, play, get them ready for bed, etc. I'd finish a class, try to field questions as efficiently as I could, sprint to the car, drive as fast as I could legally and safely to my next campus (while trying to eat as much of my lunch as I could), jump out and walk into class right as it's starting and start in with a lecture, or prepping the lab. Rush here, go full speed, rush there, full speed for the next group, just bam bam bam from one thing to the next all day long, then after the kids are finally asleep, try to stay awake to grade and prep for the next day. I think I ended the year having taught 12 or 13 classes, compared to a full-timer's five.   Like I said, it's a grind. Being able to teach two classes in a semester, having TA's to help with grading, and then be expected to do my research (which for me would be photographing, printing in the darkroom, sequencing a book, preparing an exhibit, writing, etc), that would be a dream! Many Ivy Leaguers went straight from grad school to a full-time job and don't have any experience of the life I just described. Not all, but many.   Did I choose to be a dad (my kids are amazing!), an educator, and an artist? Yes. But how often are people honest about the reality of an academic life? Once you're in it, your peers are very candid, but before your get in, you don't often hear real talk about what it's like.   For Ivy League students I would say, be grateful, be very, very, very grateful. For community college students, you make me so proud when I see you persist in the face of real and pervasive obstacles. When you graduate, you can savor that degree because you worked your ass off to get it, in ways that the privileged ones will never understand. And you're why I still do this. To my fellow community college adjuncts, I salute you; you know exactly what I'm talking about.
It is the same knowledge. English professor at Yale and English professor at community college is the same. The difference is just the name and the extra activities each school offer.
Hmmmmm.... Depending upon where they teach and what their contract status is, they could risk their jobs....depending upon what they say about their institutions.
They don’t have to, if you go to a community college, your professor most likely worked for a regular company, retired, and chose to teach. Now, if you go an Ivy League university, your professor will most likely be a Nobel price winner, NASA astronaut, or even a celebrity.
It wouldn’t be far like you can’t deny it bro lol
I've gone to community college and university.  I found that the community college professors were far more compelling and interesting than any teacher at my university
some Ivy League professors may teach at community colleges, I know some of my teachers teach a more expensive schools as well. they know the real deal on the education they are given, and sometimes, especially in the general requirements every college student has to take , it's the same stuff they are teaching at pricier schools, they know what' really going on in the system, they'd probably see eye to eye most all!
 @SamiJo2402  Actually good teaching skills has little to do with becoming a professor at a high end university. It’s about the research they do for the university. I would even argue that the best teachers are at the state and community schools as they focus on teaching as opposed to research grants.
In my experience some of the professors at the community college are from big universities as well. My best experiences pursuing an education was from community college.
really depends on the professors....its very personal. And has less to do with the institution than you would think.
one of community college professor taught me more about my major than all my university professors so far.
 @LandCruisin  idk i went to college and it was after i had to look back at all the brainwashing they push.. it really is subtle but over time all those subliginal messages end up with... ya know...these entitled millennials.
 @right2julia  i have a math professor friend who said their is a lot of egos
My physics prof at orange coast also teaches at UC Irvine
I would like to see a football match between the Ivy and community students
There is not much difference in the results here. Community College Professors have a stigma just as CC students do. It is assumed that Ivy League professors are "smarter" or "better." which may not be true. It all depends on how we define effective, smart, etc. I have taught at both CC and University level, though never Ivy League. But trust me, we all have the same training.
Community college I think are definitely more difficult. Imagine the midlife crisis of being  a professor at the local community college.
 @collinwalker7543  same. I had a advanced biology course taught by a ucsd faculty member and also someone who did research at ucsd too.
Good luck finding an ivy league prof that actually teaches a class... most of the teachers are ajuncts. The full-tme professors just rake in money for the schools and buy their way out of teaching.
What if I told you the same professors teach some of the same classes in both a well renowned local university and local small community college in the same town?
They're the same thing. A lot of adjuncts teach at community colleges as well as elite schools
Battle of overbearing egos vs I got a job to pay for my food
I had some Yale professors in my community college courses so you might have a professor representing both haha
I know TWO people who teach at a community College and at a "public ivy" (UT-Austin).  They do not "doctor" their classes for each college: they teach the same class in both colleges, and it's usually because A LOT of those students will VERY LIKELY take an upper division class with them at that public ivy (since a lot of students from that community College transfer to that bigger university very often).    In other words: community colleges tend to get way more hate than they deserve, when in reality, they're severely underrated AND overhated.    More people should go to community colleges, mainly on the basis of cutting costs, and ESPECIALLY if you have no interest in the Greek life.
 @annspencer4785   True.  Most people I've had when I went to CC either studied at the likes of UPenn, Dartmouth, UT-Austin, Berkeley...so it's not like CC professors and lecturers aren't prepared.
That’s insulting. First of all community college does not have professors they are instructors. 2nd of all Ivy League professors have Nobel prizes and community college professors don’t
 @sovietninja6865  there’s practically 1k likes for every character in the comment lmao
i would like to have yale's guy informtion, anyone have his instagram ? thank u so much
I feel like community college professors don’t really care much about research and grants so their overall jobs might be different.
They literally have to do this one! It would be so great I hope they pay attention to this comment!
30 minutes of community college professors asking for jobs and what their salaries are
And what keeps ivy league and community colleges running? Trade jobs, trades are more important and we get looked down upon
Most of community college professors are or were professors at prestigious schools
My community college professor was a phd uc berkeley professor, and my tutor's UC merced professor taught at harvard lmao
In California actaully university professors and community college professors can be the same person
Actually would be interesting to see what the professors would say compared to the students.
Great idea. I would love to see a debate between community college and university instructors.
I go to a community college and most of all the professors are the same professors that teach at other universities they just do it all. Same education
Many community college professors went to ivy leagues. Many ivy league professors actually went to community college and state schools.
Most of the teachers I had at community college (outside of nursing) were full professors at various local universities. The only difference is that they would grade my exams while I waited after class. If I took their classes at University, I never would have been able to speak to them. When you are taking advanced classes at a community college you will likely be in classes with a handful of students.
Ivy league still better. But it takes more intelligent to appreciate how intelligent they are.
At my community college a lot of the professors had taught at a big university then retired and taught cc on the side. Or they just taught at a university and a community college simultaneously.
Most of them are the same. I go to a community college near ucla. The students that graduate go to grad school, get their phd and then come teach at our community college. The stuff they were taught in their school is what we are learning now. I would not say this is for all community colleges, but mine for sure is worth it.
My gen chem professor graduated from Brown, taught at institutions like CSUN and wanted to relax a little so he became a part time professor at my community college.
​ @No_One-d9z the community college professors are a lot more dialed into real life. Ivy league professors are much more part of professional academia.
That would be great to see. I do know my CC professors are also professors at universities so I mean technically they all give the same lectures. Not sure about IVY tho.
I remember one of the smartest girls in my grade making fun of her friend for still having to take chemistry Junior year.
Clique Are you a underclassman, because that’s probably why, as soon as you hit junior/ senior year you have to deal with them
I just started sophmore year, and I signed up for an AP class... I soo  have regrets lol
Cough cough my sister to me even tho I only took one AP class and math accelerated she's like I hAD accelerated English,science, and math and 3 AP clasSES I'm like nice I can't do that too much pressure and work lmao
oh yes and then you have those kids who are math gods and literally do math for fun and they judge you for not understanding. they're also like "wah wah wah i only got a 95" and ur like stfu!
I don’t think anyone in my grade is like that. I just see AP classes as a way to lessen the amount of money I have to pay colleges for classes. It’s like dual enrollment without being in a college imo
 @squidneythesquid2487  I'm a freshman, and honestly most of the AP students shame me for only having one class?? Like sorry I'm not rich enough to pay 4 exams like you. I hate theeeeeem.
No one should compare themselves to you, but if you plan on attending a competitive college you should be taking AP classes. I feel like some people don’t get that, and sometimes need to get a nudge.
My hillbilly Ohio school doesn’t have ap classes. I wish it did because i want to take them. But oh well
AP classes are a scam. Dual enrollment is the way to go
Val I get that but also not everyone’s path requires them to go to a competitive college. If u do really well in standard classes or generally well in honors you can easily get into a state school or community college and still make a good living:) Super proud of ppl who take them tho
DONT TAKE AP CLASSES KIDS! TAKE COLLEGE CLASSES/EARLY COLLEGE AT A COMMUNITY COLLEGE. MOST OF THE TIME IT WILL BE FREE (MINUS THE TEXTBOOKS) AND THEY ARE OFTEN EASIER THAN AP CLASSES &&& DONT HAVE BUSY WORK
I did not even get there names but I instantly knew who you were talking about 😳
or that kid who asks you what grade you got on an exam, just so they can tell you that they got 100%
Hey not ALL AP student's are mean, I'm an AP student and honestly I'm always jealous of my friends that aren't. I have to stay home doing millions of assignments, assessments, etc. while my friends get to go out and do whatever. I kinda hate it but I guess I'm blessed because I really don't think I'm smart enough to be in those classes. I'm always that one student my class saying "What, Huh, I don't understand." I most likely always score the lowest on class assignments and stuff, but when it comes to End of the Year assessments and District tests I suddenly score high, so I have no hope of getting out of these darn AP classes
I don’t like judging the classes people take or whether they plan to go to a community college, university, or join the Army. I’ve taken a few AP classes and dual enrollment classes though. The job I want in the future requires me to go to university and even further my education after that, so I take AP classes since I rather have my parents pay for a $94 exam than for a class that will cost thousands.
As a 14 year old taking 3 I can confirm this is true
I took AP English, it was the hardest English class I ever took, harder than my universities English 1, and 2 classes.
 @daniellemarie669 I had 5 AP's my senior year and hated those kids. Like what do you gain from that? Most of my friends didn't know I had that many AP's and I never cared to tell them.
I hate those kids. They make taking AP classes like a part of their personality.
i take like 2 ap classes only because those are the subjects i enjoy most, and i feel almost like i should be ashamed for not taking more. when in reality i could care less, i’m in highschool to enjoy my experience and not be pressured to meet unrealistic standards to prove my intelligence.
went to high school with him and can confirm hes not!
​ @lanification  That should be illegal in my opinion, it was way harder than college. But it was really fun, way more fun then any honors or regular course. The work load was more than my college gen ed courses, but the good side is, you increase your chances to be accepted to a university because of them since they resemble the college teaching structure so much. Lastly, my advice would be to plan out every single aspect of every week, to the tea. If you can't do that you won't do well with those amount of AP's, and also don't do more than 2-3 extracurriculars while handling that many. And you will lose sleep a few times, if you manage your time poorly you'll lose sleep almost everyday. Think of it like this, if you don't pay attention in class or study for one day, that's 2 days you'll have to make up for and so on. Anyways, good luck!
man cory would judge you for not taking 7 at a time and i AM an AP kid
 @rogelly3380  the "you will lose sleep" part hit me hard. I took 6 ap classes last year and barely managed to get 4-5 hours of sleep every day for the entire year. It was very unhealthy but I will never regret my decision because that AP courseload was genuinely fun.
Alexa! You should ask the school to do something. My school made it possible so no one pays for the ap exams
I took AP classes and also night classes at my local CC bc I got out of school early my last two years for work study. The CC classes are the way to go. I was able to work in the afternoons M-F, and the intro classes they teach are going to be on par with AP HS classes. Plus, it was much less expensive than the college I attended for the same classes. I also took at least one class every summer when I moved home for work.
When I was in high school there was a girl in my grade, I’ll call her Veronica, who got high marks and took several AP’s. She and I were on great terms but she judged anyone else for not taking AP classes...WE WERE IN CANADA. Canadian universities don’t even recognize AP classes taken in Canadian schools. 😂 the only reason to take AP courses, which were only offered at our school because it was a private university prep school, is if you know for sure that you want to go to university in the States. Otherwise AP classes are beyond useless in Canada. The second best part? She didn’t end up going to university in the States. She went to a medium-level university in Canada and ended up failing her first year cuz she couldn’t handle two majors. The best part? She realized how judgemental and toxic she used to be and now she’s a completely different person.
 @alejandromansfield6867  oh damn I'm 14 too, I can't do that AP computer science is enough for me lmao
 @alejandromansfield6867  it isn't really all that bad for me rn, it probably is in the future but good luck😂
Hate AP classes. DE is the way to go. I had 3 AP classes I believe in school. 2 of them is the year I had my back surgery and so didn’t do well in the class and didn’t get credit. Other was Spanish and none of us passed because we just had too much fun in Spanish class. Took 2 DE classes and got college credit for those.   But everything worked out because now I’m a second year PA student and I graduate in less than a year :)
Dude I ended up taking 3 different AP classes one year because of a kid like this and about wanted to die by the end of it; sure I got some college credits out of it but goddamn, I wasn't sleeping well, I wasn't eating well because of stress, I didn't have any friends because all I did was homework and studying (plus I had major social anxiety so that didn't help). AP classes are ass lmao
He’s also the type to ask what grade you got just to share he got an A for all his classes
Ayye mann that was me i high school but I decided to go to community college cause bitches be broke and financial aid don't be coming in clutch lol.
올오게토루 ap kids are all on drugs i wouldnt put them on a pedestal- a former ap kid
Liv H right! And when u ask they hit you with the “let me just see yours”
Yep, i knew girl took nothing but AP and didn't get into NONE of her school choices, talk about a blow to her ego smh
I have not had someone go up to me specifically like that but I know exactly who you’re talking about
Danielle Marie i went to high school with him and he is
If u don't have all AP classes u didn't try hard enough
cloudkiss hey, you can sign a waiver, I never paid for any AP exam
The sad part is, every thing he calls "his own" belongs to the bank. He lives off of loans and he'll die before he pays them back. So he really is the loser in the end.
I’m a hairdresser and I took AP classes. I was definitely that asshole kid until I grew up and realized AP classes weren’t a personality trait.
Peace Hope lol 😂 that’s me except I don’t don’t brag to anyone.I only brag to the try hards who finish the work like in 1 second. And I get a perfect most of the time without studying while they study because they’re try hards
I’m an AP kid and I admire people more when I find out they take regular or less advanced classes because I envy them in a weird way
 @whitneysoup6094   Your comment is contradicts  When finals and exams come u get the highest Wow
Lmao it sometimes doesn't stop in uni. In college people take grad courses in undergrad and flaunt it to others
Squidneythe Squid idk if it’s just me but im a freshman and a good portion of the freshman’s take AP classes.. it’s not rly a “thing” to make a big deal about. The AP students (me) just sometimes complain about work and are ready to “fail” together
no one at my school outwardly did that, but if you didn't take any AP classes you were silently judged and put in a lower social class... we were kind of cutthroat there
Danielle Marie Cory doesn't seem like he judges people at all based off of this
Omg I’m that kid 😂 kids tease me (in a nice way) that I’m the future Harvard student of the class, which is probably the least hostile teasing I’ve ever experienced
 @Raechel9  COMPLETELY AGREE!!! TAKE COLLEGES CLASSES THEY ARE SO MUCH BETTER THAN AP AND DUAL ENROLLMENT
Danielle Marie our school perpetuates those kinds of kids. We literally got shirts that say “I am AP”. Like way to make those kids that don’t take them feel stupider.
I met one in college and I still can't believe such kid exists in 2010s
sparky boom boom boi Haha, same at our school! There’s high pressure to take ap classes and all the ap students are completely dead inside
Im not from america and man ive learned a lot about rhe american education system, what ovy league colleges are, what gpas are, what community colleges are, what ap classes are, that colleges have mascots, I think???
I regret not taking more AP classes since some of them are mandatory even though they aren't relevant to my intended major at all (like lower level requirements). Please consider AP courses if you have already decided on your university/community college and have checked out what you need in order to graduate (including electives and lower level requirements). English and math is destroying my ass right now :(( Taking AP courses to skip mandatory first year courses that aren't relevant to your intended major is definitely worth it (especially since post-secondary will be harder and even more so if you are weak at it).
I know right 🙄 people loved to compare GPAs at my school
WiggleBug doesn’t apply for all classes, for example, Spanish will reward more credits than a CC
 @irene.5798  you didn't hang around the super smart kids. Not all, but some of them have that elitist mentality that they're better than you.
He definitely asks homeless people why they don't just ask their parents to buy them homes
Peace Hope me and my friend are in the same advanced math class but I’m not nearly as good as her. My previous teacher never bothered to have me and the other “gifted students” actually do challenging work but her previous teacher made them so complicated math several grades before. She has literally cried before because she though she wouldn’t get 100% (SHE DID!) I tried to comfort her and I could understand that she had strict parents that expected a lot of her, but it starts to get annoying when she constantly doubts herself then, who would’ve thought! Another 100%! It’s irritating me and kinda hurting my self esteem at the same time it might to her. I just feel really shameful when she gets another 100% and is excited and surprised and I sit in the back getting the same grade. It’s the tiny mistakes like forgetting to add a 2 that bring be down.
1hunnid omg this one girl asked me why I’m still taking French and Physics and psych, etc. bruh they’re literally all IB classes
 @QueenVictoria26  yeah im sorry :( i feel like we have to be or we drown under the amount of work and stress of those classes
Iovanna You don’t have to apologize, I’m one of them 😔
He'd also be the kid I'd take lunch money from and he'd still come looking for me when he needs weed 😂😂😂
Tolu I’m in IB and IB kids are a lot more cutthroat 😭
 @chuu614  How would you know if you aren't in AP lmao
lolllll yaaaaas i go to an predominantly asian school and istg there r so many kids like him
Hell O  ap is the highest course in that particular subject
Nah b the real enemies are the IB kids. It’s a constant stream of “are you in IB?”
Clique I’m in hs and half the honors kids are like that 💀💀
It is called "Competition." For me it keeps me working and wanting to be #1. The fact that you do not want to lose to anyone is a good indication that you care.
 @squidneythesquid2487  i mean not all schools are like that tho we have freshmen taking AP and we encourage it we don't make fun of people my school dont take kind to bullies
I use to do that honestly . Back in 2014 if you didn’t have Honors , you were kinda useless in my eyes until I matured and realized grades and rankings never mattered
Squidneythe Squid maybe he does IB, if you guys in America even know what that is
If you think AP students are cutthroat, wait until you meet IB students.
cloudkiss They have few waivers. A $90 test becomes $15 that easily. Don’t let prices discourage you for not taking a test. You can worry about that in college.
 @QueenVictoria26  lol we were all forced to take AP (not American school)
I have taken both regular and AP classes. I noticed in AP the students are more competitive and stressed more compared to students taking regular classes.
Nah, he's the kid that judges the other kids who crammed their schedule full of AP courses for not doing a sport so that they could skip gym class and take another AP.
Coulombic Distortion are you living in the 1900s? Students have to automatically take a gym class at some point in highschool. They can’t override that class with an AP class or an elective
 @barackobama5530  At my school they could override it by taking an extra curricular sport. Track, lacrosse, etc. So all of the kids who really bragged about the number of AP classes they took, did a sport too, just to squeeze one more AP class into their schedule.
Coulombic Distortion in my state it is required that students take some sort of physical education which is why we have PE mandatory in elementary and PE mandatory only one year of highschool. This requirement is common in many states. I guess there’s still those states that don’t regulate physical education as an necessity in public schools.
 @barackobama5530  Ok, good for you buddy. We had mandatory gym through middle school too. But, all gym is is mandatory exercise, so why not let high schoolers take a sport instead of a gym class.
 @adri1879  Well, I make fun of my friends that have to take AP
 @irene.5798  Lucky you. I graduated six years ago, and kids like that did exist.
Nah There’s this guy and he’s so smart and he is so nice too! He would literally help us revise our essays and help my friend with math too. Also Im taking AP classes but I can tell you 100% that I’m not smarter than 90% of the people at my school
I hate when ever I say I’m in college prep all my other friends in honors or AP always judge me and tell me that iv never get into college with those class  Even though we literally do that Same homework and get the same amount of credits 😂❤️
 @anniehuang6321  APs aren’t the only option, there are college now classes and dual enrollment. APs are founded by college board and you have to be smart on  which AP  classes you are taking, if you know your major and what you want to do then chose APs that correlate with your  major. Also some college only accepts  APs if you score a 4 or 5 on the AP  test you take,  a 3 is a pass and you get the credit but some colleges only accept a 4  or 5. For AP classes you need to have a better work ethnic too and so if you cant handle the  heavy amount of work they give, don’t take APs then there are college nows credits u can take over the summer or fall  and dual enrollment. So if you want to take APs students have to be  chose wisely  on the  AP classes for your major.
You're 100% that kid in high school that thinks Cory is that kid in high school that would judge you for not taking APs. If AP's got you into Ivy schools you'd be right, but it take s a hella lot more than that. Cory is that kid in high school that is president of FBLA junior year and HOSA senior year, not to mention essentially a concert pianist, oh, in student government, and also has parents that are more dedicated to their kids success than their own.
Sounds like a girl I know. I am in the same level classes as her and get similar grade so I didn’t notice until one of my friends pointed it out. She would make fun of others and make them feel inferior for having a gpa .1 lower than hers.
I took all ap classes in high school, bu chose to go to community college because it wouldn't be too stressful
“Why didn’t u take AP Lit 😡😡 or US History” BECAUSE NO ONE LIKES AP LIT OR US HISTORY 👹👹👹
 @Berrybrri Bro at my high school there is like a societal divide between the AP/Honors Kids and the regular kids 😭 its kinda sad
 @irene.5798  I’m in high school and I’ve 100% heard of that kid
 @Raechel9 I hated my dual enrollment classes those things were the bane of my existence I much preferred my AP classes
No brainer to take them if you plan on going to college. Especially classing like AP bio and AP lang as they are often required classes.
When he said he was 85, I couldn’t believe it, because he looks so good for his age.
I too was happy for Saul,back here in NZ my grandmother finished university earning qualifications in teaching.
yes, he is definitely too old for the education. He can't do much with his new degree if he's already retired. Education is an investment and he just wasted money. However, since he went to a community college (so it was relatively cheap) AND did it mostly for pleasure (or for his own desire for self-actualization), it was less of a bad investment and more of a paid vacation. That, I respect. Some people buy a boat with their retirement money, he bought college classes.
When Saul said YOU'RE the one that got into Yale, I was like oooooooo Got em'.  Great answer.
That's so so so so absolutely true and an astute statement coming from old man Saul 👍👍😎
 @tima8725  That was his point though. That's what his point to Cory was. Yale didn't do any of that, he did. He's the one who got himself into Yale.
Heckkkkkkk yesss. I feel like most people in IVY feel it defines them because they get a lot of attention when they surrounded by other people
Yes! It doesn't matter where you start, it matters where you end up
 @imscared6  yea, and Cory is proud of his accomplishment, so he can tie Yale into his identity if he wants because he's gotten himself to that point.
Golden Girly you can be proud of something, doesn’t mean it made you though.
thickdogs gurl bye , anybody going to an ivy league && someone going to a uni, especially someone who’s in the medical field, both work hard af
The quote is extremely dreary, however, many see it as a quote one that is wise would say because it is nailed into our brains at such a young age. The children of today are told that (fill in a previously-seen intelligent quote, word, etc. here) is rightful and should be looked up upon. Many don’t see that a quote like that only merges people together, in a bad way. People aren’t pulled together as a community but as person resulting in an absence of uniqueness: which, as a result, creates less opportunity for opportunity.
It is an accomplishment and you should be proud but it shouldn't define who you are...I get it. 🤷
 @ace5133  Yeah but it's not a personality trait at all. People from Ivy League colleges don't even get jobs even after they graduate and get their degrees. Ivy Leagues don't deserve their name in all honesty because you're still getting the same thing every where.
I feel like if u are seeking for a more higher education, than that's something that's a accomplishment community,ivy league, or university. It doesn't matter casye u still work hard to get is an accomplishment it  shows that you're determined to work hard. Also some people cant afford to go to Ivy league school or cant even get a scholarship. They all each  work hard as an individual
 @ace5133  Yea they worked hard and they did everything they can to get where they are, can't imagine the stress and hardships that they had to go through but people who goes to ivy league schools or community colleges, they are not less than each other. When you said that "they worked harder than you" are you implying that people in community colleges didn't try hard? There are many factors playing into this. For me, as much as I wanna go into ivy leagues school, I have family and financial issues that hold me back.
It only seems wise to you if you have been raised this way. Not really wise tbh because you should be taught that school doesn’t define you anyway
Am I the only one that thought he was like 60 and not 85
payton gonzalez No you're not the only one. He looks like he's in his 50s
I more so agree with what Cory said in that we are defined more so by who we are as people, how we treat others, and the light we bring into this world. I used to define myself by my accomplishments and it got very unhealthy and thus, I crashed and burned. Through that journey, however, I learned a lot; a huge one being that I am so much more than how I look on paper and what trophies I have sitting in my room. You also have to consider that there are a lot of people (me included) that, for some reason or another, are not able to achieve at a high level like others- think disabilities.
Fun fact: Ivy League students rarely are self made and wealthy. David Hoggs got into Harvard.
 @Wizard101duncan  you environment shapes you and can help define your character, believes, etc. His environment is his school.
 @ace5133  Who said community colleges students are better? There can be one creative mind, pretty rare tho.
As if the school you go to doesn't correlate strongly with the level of achievement you will attain later. Sounds like a superficial platitude to keep everybody happy.
Golden Girly what did those people getting into Yale do to benefit anyone?
In 20 years later, who can guarantee that all the Yale students are accomplishing more than the community college students? Who are sure that Yale students are better human-beings than community college students? School is just a part of our life, it will shape us but it doesn’t define us. If you are wise enough, take into Saul’s words.
what i think when saul said that is.. they're all just a kid, getting to those ivy league is probably their biggest achievement in their life so far, thats why they think the way they think. although i completely agree with what saul is saying.
Money don't define us, what matters is happiness "every broke mf on earth"
Wonder if some of these bad grades, lead to kids or students that have Learning Disabilites, no one here brings that up, Dislexia, ADD and or Autism.
Exactly school doesn't define us but our experiences, the things we learn, our culture, what we do and the people we meet in our life
but wouldnt you say getting into an ivy league is an accomplishment
Half agreed half disagreed. I’m no American so I might misread the nuance. But getting into one of the Ivy League can be an accomplishment of life I think. On the other hand, in Japan where I grew up, general university school fee is ridiculously expensive, I should have got rid of some private universities from my choices when I was in high school. So I feel some unfairness about it, since we don’t have such strong scholarship system as US.
I am a Cornell graduate, and I agree with Saul 100%. Where you go to college does not define you.
It can define them because they are super academic and spent tons of time in that field. In order to be extraordinary, you need to submerge yourself in that field and do well. They are not popular only because they are not the majority. I wish people wouldn't underestimate their  accomplishments and values because they have different priorities and background and/or financial support from parents.
What we accomplish in life is likely tied to the school we went to, its a sad truth but its the reality, there are more job opportunities for ivy league graduates, some of the top international companies only accept people who went to the best school in their country.
not really wise. Neither your accomplishments nor your school should define you as a human being. your personality (and how you treat other people) finally defines you.  Maybe it´s just a human weakness to define themselfes...
Sorry to say but it does. As someone who was very introverted to the point that i lived completely inside my head in pursuit of intellectual heights like getting PhD from MIT but it was my community college that taught me there was a whole world outside,taught me the value of friendship and bonding. It made me realise the joy of friendship. Taught me to find joy in small things like taking a dip in a lake,drinking tea in the rain , laughing out loud with your buddies ,cracking jokes at each other. It made me more extroverted. My college shaped my identity,its the resson why i can go forward to a stage and talk. So yeah my college is my identity because it shaped mines.
 @souluvr Yep, a degree is a degree, most jobs don’t care about where you get it from because you’ve all met the same requirements.
 @Kevin-cy2dr College isn’t your identity, and it shouldn’t be. College gave you experiences but YOU are the one who learned from those experiences in the way that you did, other people would have reacted to those experiences differently and grew differently from them
Yeah, but depends on hours worked. It's more self boasting to say I worked 3 jobs and all three d's up to 8 hours. I know this because I also hand two jobs on campus equal to 36 hours a week but my outside campus job was 36hrs by itself so my work week was 72 hours not including 15 hours course load I did this for almost 3years.
 @kikivalentine1551  This is the conclusion that I have come to. Not to take anything away from anyone but if you are working the same hours as somebody who just has one job then it's not particularly difficult to keep up with.
That could just be work study jobs where you get paid to do your homework because no one visits your office
 @FairyRosee_  but still, her time management skills are amazing. She works 3 job, plays soccer and is a full time student.
 @supersqueak  I think if the two jobs are done on the same day, like one job in the morning and one at night, it's not necessarily more difficult but definitely more exhausting
They actually don't give you many hours when you work on campus and you don't get paid much at all. So, 3 jobs are probably equal to about a full time job.
I am not thinking about her time management skills. I'm thinking that she provides an excellent example that not every Ivy League student has their way fully paid for them. She's very salt of the earth, I enjoyed hearing her perspective.
She probably considers being a student athlete as one of her jobs
 @Stephaynator  funny yet genuine comment but even if u u're on adderall, those responsibilities outweigh the capability of adderall lol for real tho
tell that to the ANY student working 2 or more jobs and going to school full-time, while maintaining good grades and good work relationships. Doesn't matter what school you got to. I work 3 jobs, no help from my parents, pay my own tuition, and take 6 classes.
u can see the eyebags you know thats hardwork right there
I think the jobs she's referring to are provided by the school, ie., research assistant, administration, something related to her scholarship, etc. Not really full-time jobs that would require you 8 hours off campus. Their training is stringent so they wouldn't harass the varsity players esp during game season. Let me tell you, people who get into prestigious schools bec of athletic scholarships aren't necessarily the brightest there, nor are always in class.  I studied as a scholar at my university and the whole time I felt like working a full-time job in campus; athletes get more breaks tbh.  The person you need to ask is probably Cassandra and what the hell she did to get accepted in all Ivy League schools. She seems intelligent as well with her points.
student jobs at elite schools are usually short hours and easy, like tutoring, working at the library. some work a couple hours in the cafeteria or gym...
 @sarahs9553  this comment thread is a womens support group. Never seen girls show so much compassion to a guy working 3 jobs. Shaking my head.
She looks quite exhausted to me and is probably cuz of pressure not because she wanted it
Eh I also saw a comment that talked about how she cheated on multiple AP exams and screwed her competition so she's not so great to me.
Going to Princeton doesn’t require any more time management skills than going to any other school lmfao
Don't compare yourself to others, we all come from different situations.
Filiz Baltaci if she’s playing soccer going to school and working ANY job much less 3 she’s either doing a bad job at all 3 or lied. I’ve played 2 years of college ball at a juco and had over 50 teamates. Never had a single one work a job during the school year because if we weren’t at school we were at practice lifting or having a team function
Jackson Vance I would agree, if it wasn’t for the fact that student athletes have to maintain good grades to keep their sports scholarships and continue playing. I also personally know numerous college athletes who work during the school year. Granted, they do work on campus where jobs will work around ur schedule. Nonetheless, they make it all work because they HAVE to. They have to get good grades to maintain scholarships, they have to attend long practices and work out outside of practice to be a good athlete, and many have to work due to their financial situation. Now I can’t say whether she is lying or not, but if you’re going to Princeton then you naturally have to have good time management skills. Not to praise Ivy League students, but I wouldn’t doubt a Princeton student’s ability to balance the unimaginable.
It depends on the job I do construction while going to college 10 hours a day 7-5 college classes 5-10 then homework 11-1 she probably does part time
It makes me kind of sad that people think it’s fair that students like her must work 3 jobs to get through school. No—if youre good enough at soccer to go to Princeton shouldn’t they make it easier for people to go there and succeed? She’s such a hard worker and deserves what she has, but she shouldn’t have to do that
Yeah it is impressive to be able to manage so much at once. Though I hope she calms it down eventually. It’s not good for a person to jam pack all their time so much.
 @kikivalentine1551  okay, but how were your grades? Just out of curiosity. I always find it hard to believe when people get straight A;s) and work 3 jobs and a sport and blah blah blah, like that shits so hard.
bro i could not do that, i hardly have the will to go to work
 @yo274  There’s absolutely no way she’s a full time student at Princeton and working 3 different part time jobs. It’s literally impossible to be a full time student at an Ivy League college and have any job or anything else going on in your life. There isn’t enough time in the day. Her parents are the reason she’s at Princeton. She has low self esteem so she feels the need to impress other people. She’s also talked about being Christian so she obviously isn’t very smart.
That’s pretty intense. She is a hard worker that’s for sure
 @bethgreer1892  Being a college student now, I actually see a lot of people do this. Full time student, multiple jobs, and extracurriculars, and working multiple jobs both on and off campus. I have come to the conclusion that it’s possible, but u make a lot of sacrifices. Free time is one of them, sleep is the other. Generally, u have to maintain a relatively draining and unhealthy lifestyle for a few years. I see a lot of students sacrifice meals to make it to class. As sad as it is, most of the students who r maintaining healthy lifestyles r the ones who can prioritize themselves during the school year in addition to their school work, and who are fortunate enough to not have to work multiple jobs.
It just PROVES that EXPERIENCE and PERSPECTIVE are two different things, but yeah so true.
The young man may walk faster, but the old man knows the way.
 @Dolly-Claire  "That degree won't get you the job". Sean P.diddy Combs
 @aspreedacore   Yes, a degree from an Ivy League will most likely get you a job
 @aspreedacore  That lyric implies that a degree won't get you the job you want. However, graduates from Ivy League colleges will almost always get the jobs they want so the quote doesn't apply to them.
DK wasn’t a lyric, diddy said that straight to the Harvard grads face
exactly. The Yale kid needs some real life experience so his real personality/identity can shine through.
In California, community colleges are required to accept 100% of its applicants.
 @TheChristinoFlores  so it's like grade school  but with more accreditation lol ok.
 @aspreedacore  Well, he was wrong then because Harvard kids almost always get the jobs they want
 @aspreedacore  Obviously, it's not guaranteed, but Diddy is acting like Harvard grads don't usually get their dream jobs. If you graduate from an Ivy league, you can usually get the job and get a better salary than someone that graduated from a regular college. It's not just because of the name either. Harvard's curriculum is harder than most regular college's curriculum.
 @DK_75  take it from actual recruiters , your undergrad school doesn't matter 1 or 2 years after graduation and who gave you that bullcrap about them getting payed higher. It's the same starting salary for everyone. You get better education for sure but after a certain standard such a top 50 schools for a major , the difference in education is very low and in majors like engineering, university of illinois outranks all the ivies so it really depends on major and how different the ranking is from that regular school to ivy. For example , there is no difference in the level of education from UMich to Harvard infact UMich consistently outranks harvard in many majors
 @alijibran3255  The difference in education between a Community College and an Ivy league college is not miniscule, especially for majors like engineering and Biology. Most STEM courses are easier at community colleges and it's not even debatable. When I say better pay, I mean they usually get jobs at way better institutions with the same degree as someone that graduated with a degree from a regular college so their pay is usually higher. Notice how you named great colleges when I CLEARLY said regular colleges. Top 50 schools are not considered regular colleges so I agree with some of your points about the difference between an education at an IVY league college and UChicago/UMich being minor. Ik the medical program at John Hopkins is better than most medical programs at Ivy leagues but those are NOT regular colleges.
 @e-w-n-s7647  very true, those who identify with an ivy league school, let's all admit it comes down to the prestige associated with it, they MAKE it be a part of their identity bc they WANT the prestige and assumptions that come with ot...oh he must be a genius to be in Yale, Harvard Yale...
@DK yes is definitely get u a job but not success .... even goggle ,FB, Apple not see ur college anymore
 @Foxy11123  I never said Google won't give you a job if you go to a community College. I'm just saying it's MORE LIKELY for Google to give you the job if you go to an ivy league college
 @DK_75  If u are from an ivy league university u may get the job u want but that doesn’t mean u will KEEP the job. There are talented and capable people in ALL universities.
 @TheStepmonkey  You think other institutions aren't looking for a student that graduated from an IVY league college? He might lose his job but he will find a new one faster than most people. Also, I have never said that there aren't talented people in other universities. My friend is one of the smartest people ik and he goes to a SUNY. All I'm saying is kids that graduate from an IVY league have a better shot of getting their dream job compared to a kid that graduated from a regular college
ikr. He could be an author                             ✌️
 @DK_75  That's wrong though.  A better shot of getting jobs yes. Getting dream jobs means the ivy league kid will have to compete with millions of other ivy league kids plus talented kids from other schools. It's definitely even tougher for ivy league on "dream" jobs. Assuming an average non ivy kid will aim at a "lower dream" job than the ivy league kid. I would say it's  a lot easier for ivy league kids to compete with the average college students.
The kid hasn't even found something within yet. Wish him luck though.
 @utubestalker.dotcom  I know people with multiple degrees working jobs they didn't even major for or they are overqualified for cause they couldn't get their "dream job"...
 @aspreedacore  you know puff daddy was talking for the black community?
 @ahippy8972  he said it in his show, "I want to work for diddy"...
 @aspreedacore  it will definitley be a lot easier but generally in ivy league schools graduates will gett paid more for the same job and position just because of the school that's not 100% of the time like a Harvard graduate wont get paid more at mcdonalds
 @aspreedacore  yes i said they won't get paid more at a job like mcdonald's but If they worked a cfo/ manager of a business they get paid more
 @DK_75  it may get you a job, but will it help you keep the job?
 @drewdebrocke2656  they may get paid more but they will have to payback college fees unless they got a “free ride”
 @aspreedacore  but It will be a lot easier because they get paid a whole lot more
 @drewdebrocke2656  yeah, as long as they don't spend it all on partying and you know living a college grad lifestyle etc. theoretically with wise investing and money management even someone working 2 part time jobs with no degree can build ridiculous wealth.  Now if only I knew someone who can teach me how to invest instead of what to invest.
It’s sad to know that many other intelligent individuals think that Yale is the reason why they got in and not because of their hard work.
 @DK_75  Yes many people are trying to make out that it doesn't matter whether it's a COMMUNITY college (not state university etc.) or an Ivy League university. But it does matter!  I agree for certain majors and fields, another university (but we are not talking community college!) that has a higher reputation in that field,  is much more likely to appeal to many employers than that same degree from an Ivy. There are plenty of very highly rated and respected universities in the U.S. outside of this so-called Ivy League. However I think for law? Harvard is considered the top and has  famous/influential alumni in top posts. Correct me if I'm wrong folks!  Hence yes, there are universities which are better regarded in certain areas. There's MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) which is not in the Ivy League, and universities with name recognition such as Stanford, NYC, California Institute of Technology (CalTech) Johns Hopkins (very highly esteemed for research anf medical field even internationally) UCLA, UC Berkeley and more.
 @danieldreyfus3766  Maybe there's not much within???  Just fantastic (assuming he didn't get in mainly on some sport) scores across his subjects?   We don't know him so we can't judge.  But depending on the field he's interested in, he can probably do well - well enough. But whether he has the extra that is required to advance and rise through the ranks is another thing. He could be lacking in other "soft skills" etc. They don't have the expression "glass ceiling" for nothing.
 @SY-ok2dq  yea he just talked about his school and its prestige. If he plays sport or is a any club leader he'd probably already mention it
 @DK_75  I'm replying to this for others who might read this thread. Who you are matters a lot more than where you go after college. I know people who had a 4.0 all through undergrad and could have easily gone to an ivy but they were fine going to the local state school. I know people like my boss who went to a state school but knew she wanted to work for a international organization and thats where she is. She went to a nowhere state school for her undergrad/grad school and she has a bunch of ivy kids working for her. As some one who used to obsess over school ranking it was really eye opening the first couple of years in the job market where nobody really cares. It's all about your own hustle, if you're the type of person who wants to work for Google you'll make it happen. Of course if you're going to Law school or getting your MBA where you go does matter but for undergrad it really dosen't.
Yes he's smart. He's got the foundation. That's why he got into Yale. But Yale builds on that foundation.
Without the healthy COMPETITIONS, he wouldn't have the INSPIRATION to build up himself though, that happened to A LOT OF PEOPLE!
 @aspreedacore  "That degree won't get you the job" yeah, sleep with him will got you the job
 @eru1156  I can't predict the future, how I was suppose to know he was actually planning on coming out when he made that song with mace... F*@!
If you get it into one, it's going to be easy to get into all, they all look for similar things and have roughly the same requirements.
I need to know what she did cause I could use some tips😂
 @berdyne  just gonna put myself right here so I can get a notification if she does give out tips in the comments
 @alexagarcia2275  from what I know they usually don't give full ride scholarships, but some do give other scholarships
Aamir Dave not necessarily. they look for different things in people and many people only get accepted to one or two
​ @whitneysoup6094  At Yale, anyone whose family income is less than $65,000/year automatically gets a full ride. For families making between $65,000/year and $200,000/year, there is a sliding scale where the family pays between 1% and 20% of their income.
Mud Boy • 13 years ago that just sounds like envy
 @laylonieandco  this usually doesnt play out in reality. I knew a kid who went to princeton with a family income much less than than 65k and the school made him pay 5 or 6k per year
Major Depressive Disorder - Treatment Resistant Actually, being Asian is more of a disadvantage when applying for Ivy League colleges. I believe there’s a lawsuit going on about how it’s harder for Asians to get accepted into Harvard.
Aamir Dave lmao??? no. Each school has a different campus culture and community, with different emphases on different fields. Take a look at the acceptance rates—the 10+% and the 5%s are drastically different in terms of difficulty for the students aiming for the top.
 @sparklysparkle21  They tend to look for exceptional students with near perfect gpas and near perfect SAT scores who also volunteer outside of school and maybe participate outside of schools. If you are a well-rounded student all of them would accept you. If you have a GPA of 99+ and a 1520+ SAT score, and you also volunteer in your community and in school, and play 1 sport, there is no way all the IVY'S wont accept you. Just sound like a normal outgoing teen with social skills at the interview and you'll be 100% fine.
 @3366Marina  Wrong assumption.  She basically aced every class and exam she's ever taken.  She scored perfect scores in her math SAT, AP Chem, AP Physics, AP Bio, got near perfect on her English SAT, scored nearly perfect on her ACT's as a FROSH!  She is not privileged.  She's just smart .... but too humble to mention it in this video.
hermione granger she has a channel where she talks about it
@Juliann Zhou Do you know the name of the essay, or  have a link or something?
I mean, I believe it would require a pretty mature and dedicated high school student in order to be accepted to the 8, but FAR FAR easier than numerous other things... like say, graduating from pharmacy school, vet school, med/np school..etc. (whether it is a state university or an ivy league graduate school) -Dr. Ryan
Mud Boy • 13 years ago I mean if she made it to all 8 Ivy League schools, then she definitely smart as hell, soo she prob gon make it pretty well in life...
Aamir Dave nah, my brother got into 2 ivy leagues but was rejected from the rest
There's a site where it showed her essay, and I gotta say, it's very moving.
 @Tetraglot  not necessarily true. My family earned much less yet Yale and Harvard expected us to pay at least a quarter of the cost. Much of the financial aid they offered were student loans which I simply couldn't take.
 @aamirdave5202  While it is true that they have similar requirements, your statement is incorrect. Especially in recent years, with the amount of highly qualified students applying to ivy tier schools, no matter who you are, admission is a gamble. Once you make a certain cutoff you are competitive at all of the ivy league schools and are qualified to get in, yes, but the chances that you actually get into all of them are almost nothing. Each year it gets harder and harder and nobody has a guaranteed spot anywhere, with the exception being certain cases of legacy (but even then, it looks worse for those kids every year).
 @ramzy4458  "asian priveledge"? what? no. she got in there because of hard work. Try being an asian with strict asian parents. Most of us are "academically talented" because we're expected to be by our parents.
 @svmathtutor   I think what bothers me the most is that people misunderstand 'above average' intelligence with her percentile of intelligence relative to her percentile of academic success... Psychologists have known for ages that IQ correlates poorly with Academic Success relative to other factors. Academic success is far more well correlated with Grades in general for example then it is with Standardized Test Scores, or IQ.  To put this into perspective someone who is a 4.0 student with a dismal 95 IQ has a better chance of getting into Harvard, and a better chance of succeeding in menial labor and projecting 'seeming intelligence' than a 2.0 student with a 150 IQ. Intelligence is a far better measure of the ability of the adapt to new scenarios, and comprehend the abstract, and IQ is the best measure of intelligence. Good students are not necessarily intelligent. No single trait makes for 'good grades' but the strongest traits are extremely good short term memory, and a study style based on frequent repetitive and extremely dry affect and interest in material. That is perseverance to do unpleasant or uninteresting things mindlessly (IE study), not with the goal of retaining the memory long term (Actually learning it), but merely short term (So as to ace the tests or graded assignments and then dump the information).   This is also the reason that high High School and undergrad grades don't actually show predictive success when it comes to BAR test examinations in post grad Law Students. They do well in all their academic endeavors, but benefit from little long term retention.   In any case, what stellar students do have in common is very very few have 'low' IQ's there is SOME correlation between 4.0 students and being 'above average' intelligence, but being the top 1% academically has less than a standard deviation of difference in intelligence, in other words, you could at best assume they are a little above average, but you definitely cannot assume they are 'extremely intelligent' they are at best a little more intelligent than the average person with a lot of other qualities that make them perform well in schools.   As a side good grades and academic performance correlate more strongly with better success in real world markets than high IQ or intelligence. High IQ and intelligence correlate better with success in PhD Research and Publishing than strong academic performance or good grades. So if you're looking to work in the private sector as an employee, then you don't need to be intelligent, but you do need to get good grades. If you're looking to do groundbreaking research and revolutionize the world, don't count on that meaning you'll be economically successful, and it also doesn't mean you'll do well in school, but if you make it your IQ matters a lot more than your previous academic performance.   All around I find these videos disturbing. For the most part people value themselves far too much based on their achievements, and say they believe that their grades, or their admission to this sort of school, or their entry into this special club, or this privileged minority, causes them to believe they are... Intelligent... Successful... Competent... Better... Whatever. In almost all cases they are misleading themselves. Fortunately some minority of them while doing their research will find themselves a small fish in a big lake and realize either through their education, or via comparison to others how false their assumptions were. Impostor syndrome be damned, most people assume too much based on the wrong things. Ask what you want to be and why, and then do yourself a favor and look up what correlates most strongly with whatever it is you desire to see in yourself, you might be surprised to find you've been going about it the wrong way, and judging yourself in the wrong manner.
Aamir Dave not necessarily. I applied to 3 ivy’s and got into one.
Got into all the community colleges I applied too not that impressive 🥱
Mara Flores Imagine a sailor in the Navy. Being in the Navy says a lot about that man. He is courageous, a risk-taker, and among other traits, he also has a willingness to serve and defend the country that he loves. What does he do? He serves his country. What does he attend? The Navy. The statement you just quoted is one of the most counterintuitive, contradictory, and redundant statements I have ever heard in my lifetime.  Now, would you say attending an Ivy League school says a lot about who you are? You might think that an Ivy Leaguer is privileged, wealthy, extremely bright, and has good connections. All of those things have a say in that Ivy Leaguer’s personality; it is not a bad thing to admit, and not everyone who shares those traits have the same personality, there are serval more traits that shape up that Ivy Leaguer. However, they attend an Ivy League school. They attend a school that they worked their entire lives to go to. They do what they attend. Even if you don’t accomplish something, you are defined by that and your potential to improve.
 @bryanmgonzalez  Counter-intuitive, sure. Contradictory, absolutely not. Some people become police officers because they're sadists and enjoy shooting a gun. Some people sign up to be nurses and then verbally, and in worse cases physically mistreat their patients. Some teachers act like they love to educate the future generation but are secretly sexual predators. They got the credentials, they've completed "attending" their institutions, but they do misdeeds. And ultimately you are accountable for what you do. Even if it's an accident, even if some negative life event damaged you in some way, what you do (or don't do) defines who you are and who you've become.    He didn't say you're NEVER what you attend; he said you're not necessarily what you attend. Meaning that sure, there are benchmarks that can reasonably justify a certain personal brand or trait. But they don't NEED to define you, and how you define yourself is up to you, no matter how anyone else perceives you. And that's the point.
I agree, you can be a Harvard graduate and yet not make a positive impact on the world
 @bryanmgonzalez  so riddle me this, generally speaking how would people view students who only attend community college? 🤔 Do you know about the negative stereotypes about students who only attend community college??
But what you attend still speaks volumes as to how intelligent you are
Bryan Gonzalez in you trying to say that going to an Ivy League college is the same as going to the navy? 😂😂
4esthetics I got into 12 universities and went to community to save money and adjust. I completely disagree. For some people the intelligent choice is saving money and for others the smart choice is going straight to uni. It depends on the person and honestly sometimes acceptances only speak on work ethic or luck or if your family is alumni, but there’s other things to be intelligent in that aren’t academia. Just because someone isn’t necessarily book smart doesn’t mean they aren’t smart with music or technology etc which can be overlooked in acceptances since it’s typically about grades, test scores, and essays. Intelligence isn’t black and white or measured by schooling as much as people would like it to be
 @rainreaza6671  I agree with you there. Many put so much stock into what school you went to as a sign of how smart you are. They quality of the education might be better but that does not mean you yourself are assimilating it and becoming smarter or wiser.   Too much weight is placed on titles and not on accomplishments. Getting into an Ivy League school, let alone all 8 is no small feat, but that does mean you will be a success of even competent at your job.Hell, there are people who did go to an Ivy League school who did great at school but could not navigate their way in the real world once they got out.
 @bryanmgonzalez  Navy is not a school, its a way of life. Ivy league schools are a temporary part of life, you get there and get educated and leave.  Navy is life. Saul was differentiating between where you train vs what you do for life.
 @bryanmgonzalez  She took the quote out of context. The man said that there's nothing in school in the army that defines us but they are a part of us.
 @bryanmgonzalez  If you read the statement too literally -- as I think you've done, in addition to a slightly out-of-context example (you are talking about occupations, Saul's quote talks about education) -- then yes it does become redundant.   If, however, you try to extract the spirit of the quote (rather than be pedantic about its letter), it isn't at all redundant, but rather a humanistic plea to be better at acknowledging/recognizing: 1) a person's inherent value e.g. traits, skills and character, in contrast to 2) our tendency to simply/immediately project immense value and worth based on the prestige of affiliated/'attended' institutions: most typically where someone gets their money and/or their degree.
It's not who you are underneath but what you do that defines you.
I love how they allowed Saul to speak on a older but relevant perspective! + I think it's always good to listen to our seniors!
That was such an apt statement. The asian yale dude said something like "yale made me who I am", and that's really worrying that he thought that way. Like don't give so much credit to your school lol
Gotta be careful with that. What you do and where you attend makes up your character. And even then perspective could still tell you something else
 @bryanmgonzalez  Theres a bunch of scumbags in the military lol. Not all, but theres quite a few. That was a bad comparison
 @ruffsnap  But in a way the school really does. Ivy League unis have a completely different culture compared to non Ivy League. There is that set expectation, the pressure, the privileged and prestige. When you graduate from Yale there is that expectation that you are on your way to becoming someone great. Nobody expects that from someone who graduated from community college.
 @rumblefish9  No I definitely get that, and that you feel like you have to live up to some certain standard. But there's a difference between achieving things and feeling accomplished and thinking that your school "makes you who you are".
A non A non They never said it isn’t something to be proud of, they’re saying you shouldn’t make it ur entire personality. You shouldn’t base everything you are on the school you attend. It’s actually boring, it doesn’t make you interesting or appealing.
Bryan Gonzalez You took Mara’s comment too literally. But, as a matter of fact she’s right! The NAVY is the NAVY, don’t get me wrong on that. But, who makes up the Navy? People! People WHO ARE for what they do. Your answer is the most selfish, absurd, and ignorant I’ve read. PEOPLE know they’re going to the Navy to do great things, just like the ARMY or any other military branch. You never have underestimate a person for what he/she is, much less the place they attended to get a formation.   Is a doctor given privilege for where he went to study medicine ? That’s what matter the less because realistically NO ONE has anything guaranteed, including HARVARD graduates. With this you’re what you do, not necessarily what you attend.” Reflect on my words ;)
Loved that man even before he started talking. The fact that he went to study at that age is amazing. He really is living the life-long process of learning. I aspire to be like him.
What he said is both true and not, since we are molded by our enviroment and life encounters. But yes there is def some truth in what he said, example if someone with a high status shows/teaches you facts wont make it more ”correct” then someone with low status telling you. :)
Except some schools do require you to do, before you attend.
 @bryanmgonzalez  that's more so stereotypes, than personality traits. You can join the navy and not be any of the aforementioned, besides serving the country. 💁🏾‍♂️
ts flew over too many heads a mf could major in something but end up doing something different after graduation
Bryan Gonzalez you aren’t defined by anything that happens in your life dude. An education doesn’t define you, a job doesn’t define you, past trauma, etc. while it is part of your experience, it doesn’t shape your identity. If anything, using labels to identify yourself takes away from the true essence of what being human really is
 @bryanmgonzalez  Excellent point, but you missed a key word in that quote, and that is "necessarily."
Yeah you can tell he's been around the block a few times
Bryan Gonzalez I think he meant that what you attend is temporary, while what you do is permanent. Therefore making your actions in life and accomplishments more important. There are people who went to Ivy League schools that didn’t have a bright future, and there’s people who didn’t go to ivy leagues or even school for that matter, that did important things in their lifetime. I do agree with you that what you attend can affect what you do. For example, being in the navy makes you do courageous things and becomes a source of inspiration in what you do later. Alongside that you most likely were brave before you even attended. I just think that what he was trying to say was that at the end of the day where you went to college will only be a smaller part of your life. It’s what that came out of that experience that matters the most.
4esthetics yes taking basics for 20-50k or 2-4k since it takes two years to get into your major. Some people are just more financially literate then others. Your statement is misguided and condescending. Or the fact that some students get free rides or go to another school that doesn’t cover everything come into play. Got accepted to many universities chose community college cause it was free and just transferred to get my Bachelors and now I’m considering PhD but if I take that path living with my parents is a better option to save instead of going to another school in another state or city and practically increase the cost of my degree to a price that financially illiterate people are paying.
This video ended for me as soon as I heard that.
I am community college student. You are WHAT YOU DO, not NECESSARILY What YOU ATTEND. Can you people actually read English. Can you use context clues to translate a sentence into what you can understand? Yes and yes. You all are wrong if you argued against Saul’s quote, because you don’t know your own language. Start read and thinking for yourselves and not rely or interpret other peoples words.
 @bryanmgonzalez   plenty of people join the military because they are broke and see it as the option out.  You are painting attributes on people within a broad brush.  Some might get into Ivy League from merit, some from athletics, affirmative action, or money / bureaucracy.   You portraying everyone in a group as having the same qualities is ridiculous.
Most colleges also govern senior me free tuition which is awesome. I’d go to classes forever it was free lol
Saul had a lifetime of experience to draw on, it's a huge advantage, young people come in with nothing and offer nothing to their peers
Hey Sunless, you watch Jubilee, I thought you played Rocket League. I’m subscribed
I actually had a class with him at SMC, he is such an amazing man.  He inspires me everyday because he never gave up!!
Yeah right, same I thought he or I flipped the numbers at first lol
I thought so too at first but he's definitely not bad looking for his age.
Kayla O. He looks incredible for 85! I’m sure his constant drive to progress in life regardless of his age is helpful in keeping his mind and body young!
6tile of his books so that all 5million people can buy it!!!
I also couldn't believe it, he looks phenomenal for 85, the majority of people at that age cannot even walk and look like they could die at any given moment.
 @skeleton5459  well that relates to 30-40 something age for men, this here is a unique example.
Wow, really? I thought he was 60 years old, max. Incredible!
That is what I thought!  I thought he was like 60.  Hope I look half as good as he does when I turn 60.  I liked all the people on this panel - both the community college and Ivy League students.  The old guy has it figured out and is quite wise - what counts in your life is what you do with it - your achievements - not so much where you went to school.  I wish each and every one of these people success, fulfillment, and happiness in the future.  Think that is what we are all seeking.
Silver Wolf my grandpa is 86 and goes to the gym almost everyday for a couple hours, he does use a cane sometimes but he usually just keeps it around just in case
he looks way over 90. 65 years old more like 65 seconds away from having stroke.
if he can do it i think all of you can too :)
I got you your 7000th like and it feels so satisfying
Wow! Congratulations on your hard work! It sucks there’s a stigma for people in CC’s but they really help.
you're truly an inspiration and you encourage me to not be ashamed of my GPA or sat because, in the end, it's my hard work that will pay off.  i aspire to go to law school and your accomplishments drive me to focus on my college education, regardless of the institution or the prestige, and work hard towards my goal. i would love to connect with you and talk more about how you were able to accomplish so much.
 @andreamercado-cruz6229  your hardwork will pay off trust me! There's nothing more you can do besides giving your best and most importantly believing in yourself. Best of luck <3
It gives me hope, I'm so happy for you as well
So you’re barely starting your senior year at a university and already got accepted to law school?
 @strawberry10261026  I'm graduating 2 quarters early and am jumping straight to law school without a gap year so yes! I took advice from a bunch of other lawyers and law students who said to take the LSAT a year before your admission starts.
But won’t it take longer by attending a community college first?
 @slumpskd1382  I'm confused by what you mean. A bachelor's degree takes 4 years of undergraduate school. I did my first two at a community and I'm finishing my last two at a private D1 school. It takes the same amount of time if not faster. I found that after transfering from a CC, I had more credits than my peers in the same grade. I'm even graduating a full two quarters early because of it so it definitely has its benefits.
 Joy  Congratulations on your achievements thus far! Have you started prepping for the LSAT?
 @Nidrizzle  Did you do something outside of college that boosted your chances at the end for ivy
 @narcommando546  replying to this so I get a notification if they answer
 @narcommando546  I joined a bunch of honor societies (i think around 7 or so) and was super involved on my campus chapters. This gave me the opportunity to have exec board positions which looks nice on a resume or application. I also worked full time time on the side and spent my free time volunteering at an animal shelter. I live in the city so I tried to do as much community service work as I could. Not so it would make me a better candidate but more so because it's a genuine thing to do. I recently finished up a 10 week internship at a law firm but it was more so entry level intern work but it still helped me gain some more connections. All in all, Ivy schools don't just want a book smart 4.0. They want someone who's well rounded and constantly juggling multiple things at once. My advisor told me that it's more impressive to a school if you have a 3.7 gpa with many extracurriculars such as honor societies or sports, hobbies and a job rather than a 4.0 student who has nothing but their grades. Hope that helps!
 Joy  I suggest starting off with Khan Academy as a way to ease into studying (it's free!) and I highly highly recommend 7Sages! The minute I switched over from the powerscore books, my practice scores increased by 5 points within a month of solid studying
 @shorty1  Sorry I've been a little busy with work and finals but I hope my answer was helpful! Let me know if you have any questions~
But it takes so much longer when you really want to pursue your career asap. Congrats though!!!
 @user-mt1th4wu8x  I don't understand what you mean. Are you referring to "climbing up the ladder" for your career?
I did the absolute same, now I have a incredibly rewarding career with an amazing salary. I don't regret college nor starting off in community college.
 @lelrica6883  Congrats to you and I hope you're feeling super accomplished! Community colleges have such a stigma and I think it's so important to show people who are worried about attending a CC that you can successfully build a career and you can utilize it as a stepping stone.
The only reason you're not ashamed of it is cause it got you accepted to an Ivy.
I know a lot about Community College, I know a lot about taking the law school admissions test, and I know what it takes to get into Yale Duke, Columbia and Chicago.
Hi, sorry to bother, but do you have any study tips? I study so hard and so much everyday, and for my commutative exams I have studied a month before them, and 6 hours a day is studying for a week, but I barley  passed my exams, I got bad grades, do you have any advice or study tips to share? I’m currently in grade 11 and in an IB school :)
​ @Nidrizzle Hello I would like to ask I graduated last year from vocational school with gpa 3.7 straight A and B but got only one C in history unfortunately. I am from Kazakhstan. And I would like to try my luck if it's possible apply to Ivy League but realized that my preparation now is very low and may be I need time to be competent. And my age also concerns me coz I turned 23 this year. I aldeady give up on idea that my GPA can't beat others coz of B and C grades. I didn't even apply to any college yet nor in foreign.
 @danaackerman8807  never ever think that your age is a factor in whether you can go to law school or not. I just turned 22 and many of the students in my orientation were in their mid 20s to 30s. Secondly, your GPA is great for the top 14 law schools in the US just try to study and get a high lsat score to make your application a bit more sparkly compared to the other applicants! Don't let a single C stop you from going to law school!!
what were your stats/ECS if you don’t mind sharing? currently a CC student looking to transfer into columbia. Did you go apply to columbia GS?
 @kimiaye305  Hello! I was accepted into Columbia Law however their stats and requirements may differ from the GS. I had a 4.0 gpa and a 175 lsat score. From community college I transferred to a private D1 university and my transfer gpa was also a 4.0!
This is very admirable and inspirational. For me personally, seeing this brings me hope for my future and others like me
@Nidrizzle Were you given any scholarships due to lower socio-economic status or did you achieve your scholarships purely because of merit? Also instead of going to a community college, do you think going to a public local college that isn't considered community college but is still cheaper would be fine before transferring to better more prestigious colleges?
Lies. No person can get straight 4.0 after failing in high school
@p4p308 who said I was failing????? a 2.0 gpa is a C average in high school.
 @qslasher620  First off, I'm privileged enough to say that I am not of lower socio-economic background and my parents paid for my undergrad tuition. That being said, all of my scholarships were solely based off merit but I would highly encourage you to join honor societies because I received a pleasant amount which definitely helped cut my total tuition down.  I think going to a local college before transfering to a more prestigious school is totally fine! If anything, it's absolutely normal and many of my friends have taken that path. I'll give you two instances: A close friend of mine had stellar grades, was president of literally every club and everyone knew that he was going to go to an Ivy for sure. He ended up going to a state university and later transferred to Stanford last year. Another one of my friends was in the same boat I was with lower grades yet she had a better SAT score which allowed her to have more options. She also went to a state school and just recently for her last year, she transferred to NYU because her school offered a 3+1 program where they would pay for your last year if you did 3 years at that state school with a certain major. I think the most important thing is making sure that this is what you want to do (and don't ever let anyone try to make you feel bad for your school choices or not being a regular student at a 4 year school).
 @Nidrizzle   Thank you very much for answering! Do the honor societies give the scholarships or did you receive scholarships from different entities because they saw all the honor societies you were in?   Great to hear the paths your friends went down! I also would love to do something similar with a pretty great resume, but I am just nervous with mishandling the logistics with transferring and seeing if the credits transfer, etc… There is definitely a stigma from the state I am from where staying locally for college at all doesn’t get the best reaction from the adults I talk with. Like you said that shouldn’t impact the most financially-worth it route I decide to go down.
More people should take advantage of going to a community college for prerequisites. I saved so much money and got a second chance on school. Lots of people at big state schools still take some prerequisites at community colleges just because of the smaller class size.
hi can you please tell me your email so  can privately ask you questions
Congrats !! Any tips for me I’m found CC as well
Congratulations, I'm glad that community college was on of your stepping stones.
This is incredible and inspiring! I dropped out of high school and I am starting CC this year. I would love to hear updates on which law school you choose!
wow thats a complete 180 i almost dont believe you. congrats on graduating soon! any tips? im a junior with a 2.4 gpa
 @PlayList-kh1nl  For the first year, yes it was all online through Zoom and exams were proctored but after, that my university shifted to in-person in 2021
 @Xavier_0112 you definitely can I was a depressed loser in high school who didn’t do my my work I had a completely different mindset going into college and got way better grades
damn bro this is giving me hope cuz i have terrible grades but i plan to go to community college and i wanna go to an ivy or t20 school after
What law are you going into and how did you decide?
Hey I’ve just started community college and I really wish I had someone like minded to give me advice. I’m kind of the opposite of you. I floated my way through high school with actually trying and I know it would bite me in the butt if I keep it up so I’m actually trying now and I even have a schedule. I just don’t know if I’ll be able to keep this up because I have so much free time since the majority of my classes are online. I’m scared to join multiple extracurriculars because I love my free time but I also don’t have any friends so I’m not sure. I’d really like some guidance.
 @Nidrizzle hi! I know i’m very late and I hope you’re active to respond to me. Was the only thing you did at a CC keep up with your grades? What boosted your application to make you stand out? ECs? Essays?
It is true, going to community college is just as valid as any other college. My aunt went to a community college and then transferred two years later to University of Washington to do accounting.
This is still incredibly inspiring even a year later. Very comforting cause I'm really thinking about my future tonight.    When I told the news with my sister about attending community college, i could sense her disappointment in her tone, which made me feel very ashamed and embarrassed to discuss it with the rest of my family. I have one more semester to make it count, and consider to continue my goal to pursue law... This really hit all the nails for me. Thank you :,)
That's awesome and incredibly impressive! Idk where you chose but I'm going to be attending Yale as an undergraduate this fall and I'm super excited. I know how much hard work it takes to get into one of these places and I hope you're doing well!
That’s so awesome to hear. I plan on also attending my state community college than transferring to UF cause it’s cheaper for me. Glad to hear that from you honestly.
 @FaaduProductions  Tell us how old Jaspreet was when the bed-pooping stopped.
You don't know him, but you're right, non-problematic people these days get along very well in society since on social media everyone loves them. It's a social construct tho. Don't feel like you have to be "non-problematic" everyone is unique in their own way. Accept people for who they are
 @hi-hn1fo  I agree that all people are unique but that doesn't negate the fact that non-problematic people age gracefully. Also, being non-problematic is not a social construct, it's something a person have to attain at some point in their lives coz we can't always be as effed up as we were yesterday.
Yeah and that might be his best privilege's as who know if this crowd is gunna live as long as him lol
As soon as he said he was 85, I came to the comment section and saw this. It’s actually crazy
I wonder if he was kidding? No way he is 85 but if he is then kudos to SAUL!
 @nivekmendez6376  I never said it didn't, and my comment is directly relevant to the video.
 @__ru_  i say im a millionaire can i have a million
 @nazeerahmed9882  it would be ignorant to compare being trans to being wealthy
@__ru_wanting to be something doesn’t make you that thing. I can say I want to be a dog but my DNA is still human at the end of the day, and it’d be ridiculous for me to expect everyone else to play along with my delusions of being a dog.
 @jordanleighwheatley  There are only 8 Ivies. But there are other schools that people see as equivalent like Stanford, Duke, and MIT. The Ivy League is just an athletic conference
 @loveu4life100  I found some other lists online.  One was 12, one was 10, one was 8.  So I'm confused
Jordan Leigh Wheatley Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Brown, Cornell, Columbia, Dartmouth, and UPenn. Those are the 8
 @irene.5798  the very first thing that comes up is a list of ten.  Yale, Harvard, princeton, Dartmouth, Cornell, Columbia, brown, Stanford, and then two in the same list I wouldnt have thought were university of Pennsylvania and tuck university of business.  That was the top Google search
 @jordanleighwheatley  Stanford is not an ivy league. Tuck is part of Dartmouth.
Yet she still can't speak an entire sentence without saying the word "um"
 @benreilly595  Nervous clamoring has nothing to do with intelligence but sure.
Yes. How can she possibly say that that was based on luck. For people who are borderline, sure, but of you're very good you're clearly very good, no matter how bad a day the person reading your application is having
And she was so humble and respectful throughout the video as well. Unlike Cory who really made his school one of his personality traits lmao
 @camie8423  Maybe you can be a world-famous painter or athlete. Find your passion because that's the most important thing. For me, it was studying medicine but for Usain  Bolt, it was running. Be best in your own field and that is exactly what it takes to be appreciated.
I can't think of a single reason to apply to every Ivy League school.  A lot of them are very different, so it seems to me either the person is really egotistical or very confused about what they want.
Lucy Link well chances r if ur good enough for one ur pretty much at the standard to be accepted by the rest
joy muusmann uh what does her being pretty have to do with anything?
Daniel she probably wasn’t sure which would accept her, so she did all just to be safe and didn’t expect to be accepted into all of them
Ben Reilly there are actually studies that say really smart people tend to have sloppy handwriting and sometimes struggle getting their thoughts out because their brain just works so fast, so you can’t dismiss her intelligence just because she struggles to get words out sometimes.
bout to drop a stats video soon on my channel for those interested!
The thing is, Ivy leage schools only require one application for all the schools. This system is called the common application. You could send an application for Harvard, apply for common app, and potentially get in in every school.
 @benreilly595  at least she got into all the ivies and probably has a better future lol
It's really not too unfathomable for people to get into all 8 Ivy league schools, what is rare is applying for all 8. Obviously nothing is certain but if you get into one of them you'll probably get into all of them. They're looking for the same qualities. So it really comes down to which one you really want to go to.
 @jordanleighwheatley  there's only 8 ivy league, some kther schools like mit and stanford also get mistaken for ivy
Daniel she probably had one she really wanted to get into and the others were safeties. When it comes to ivy leagues, after a certain point it’s random. Even if you have a perfect gpa, sat/act score, 9 extracurriculars. You can still be denied 🤷🏾‍♀️
300 subscribers without any videos they are a group of extremely prestigious schools that very few people get into ( like 5% acceptance rate) and most applicants are very smart kids with good scores. It’s hard to get in 1 let alone all of them.
 @dhoult  Some people apply just to see if they can get in. Curiosity, ig? I personally won’t, I’ll only apply to UPenn, Columbia or Cornell cos those are the ones I truly would like to experience, not the rest
 @pcarebear1  Yeah im not wasting my application fees on colleges I don’t plan to go to😭
 @dhoult    I'll give you one: she wanted to be in one of those schools.
 @visiblehuman3705    No, most applicants are NOT very smart kids. They are kids of rich people.
 @AAaa-pm3rr  of course rich people are going to get in unfairly but that is when the school has a  building with your family’s name on it level of wealth which is a small portion of their students. Besides I was just saying that the majority of applicants to those school are above average intelligence kids and on top of that the acceptance rate is so low
 @benreilly595  ok and? are you gonna say ppl with stutters are all idiots lmao, not everyone is good at speaking under pressure
she is extremely smart and you can tell that she doesn’t flaunt about it 24/7
Every one of the 7 accepantces she didn't attended means a rejection to another very qualified student.
 @dhoult  You apply to make sure you can get into one. If you only apply to one, and then don't get in...then what? Most people who try to get into college apply to more than one if they can, just to have back ups in case their first choice falls through.
 @edgargarciatorres4102   They're looking for about the same qualities in applicants, sure...but they all have different numbers of people who apply, different rates of acceptance, and different enrollment numbers. Penn State, for example, has almost 100,000 students; Brown University, on the other hand, has less than 10,000. Colgate University's acceptance rate is about 22%; Yale's is about 6%. So there's certainly no guarantee that just because you got into one, you'll get into all the others.
Obviously she worked really hard it’s not like she got in for doing absolutely nothing but there are some advantages to certain people
Stara Sky Well there are a lot of ppl that didn’t work hard at all to get into Ivy schools 🤷🏾‍♀️
u know its harder for asians to get admitted to college than it is any other race?
ForgetMeNot it’s actually harder for Asians to get into Ivy Leagues
 @Malik-zf3cn  how so asians make the moat money so how ?
shadow universities tend to not accept asians because they think all are the same, search up the lawsuits because of it
shadow people don’t understand that asians make the most money because there’s so much pressure to make money in the asian community. pressure = extremely hard work. of course this isn’t every asian but...
The primary issue I have with kids that apply to all ivy league schools is that each school has a very different culture, location, focus, etc... In my experience, people who apply to each ivy are either A-Just seeing how many they can get accepted to without even wanting to go, or B-they just want to gain the elitist title of “Ivy League.” I feel it robs students that genuinely want to attend a specific school, while students that just want to see if they could get in end up taking acceptance spots.
RoyisDaBEST I guarantee she worked harder than you or anyone you know.
 @brycechu1874  you do not take a spot if you do not attend and enroll, what kind of logic is that
 @deniselim6766  Technically, you do. Colleges typically accept more students to account for students that choose to go elsewhere in order to create a normal class size. This is also why wait-lists at ivy schools are almost never used. If a student has very little interest in going, but applies to the school and gets in, they in essence have taken that "spot" out of a student that could of had the eligible skills/background needed. This is regardless if the accepted student chooses not to enroll since the amount of students accepted is more or less constant. Trophy hunting students do exist and the practice is discouraged/frowned upon. Unfortunately, I came from a school were multiple students did this just to gloat. I am hopeful the amount of students that do this is low.
0 what’s the privilege? Black people make up like 5% of the population at PWI’s lol. Look at any Pwi and white people and Asian people make up the large majority
 @froyokid  You are actually wrong.  Look at the percentage of the population of the school vs. the percentage of the population of race in the US.  You will find that Asians are over-represented.  But the minority that is the MOST over-represented are Jews, being only 2 percent of the population.
 @teeze6007  When your 1380 on the SAT gets you in over a dozen Asians who scored 1580 out of 1600, that's privilege.  You can't say it's about being well-rounded because those kids with 1580 were also in gymnastics, orchestra, debate team, etc.  You can't say they have no personality because you can see from their YouTube videos that they DO have personality.
 @teeze6007  Also, you're not taking into account how much focus & energy Asians are putting into education.  Of course, groups that focus more on it will be "over-represented" just like African Americans are "over-represented" in the NBA.  People don't realize Michael Jordon, Lebron, etc worked their asses off to achieve their greatness, just like the Asian scoring a 1580 out of 1600 on the SAT worked her ass off.
Yep. I live in Austria, I used to always ace any English exam I've had here, and it still always made my blood boil. I knew exactly where the others will stumble and though I always or nearly always got those questions right, I was still always mad about those questions. The way she talked about admission reminded me of that. And to think that she's Asian, i.e. she's underprivilidged in the respect of admissions, and she got in all Ivy Leage schools… you're onto something haha.
Anyone who has any bit of common sense knows that the system is America is such an enormous joke that I find it saddening that we somehow have the audacity to call it "education."
I'm actually quite amazed that someone would apply to all the schools. I remembered lazily applying to one school and that was it 😂
 @royisdabest  you realize she had to work even harder to get into an Ivy League? Ivy Leagues heavily discriminate against Asians.
 @brycechu1874  Why shouldn't they give themselves options? Your chances of getting to an Ivy is already very slim. Why would they give themselves no plan B if they don't accepted into their main school?
ForgetMeNot for asians it is messed up because asians gotta work 10x harder
 @royisdabest  We have to work 10x harder so yeah it was hard
 @froyokid  Or maybe they accept more white people because they are over 60% of the population. Also, when you look at white people's average scores, they tend to be pretty high so they usually don't just get in bc of their race
 @TheStepmonkey  yeah, sorry. i didn't mean that, was just in a bad mood
 Federal Reserve  someone said they Prob ably worked a minimum wage job.
 @royisdabest  see you at community college. Getting into all 8 ivys isn’t a fluke. She actually deserved it.
Yeah most Asian studnets in Ivy league probably did make it on theor own but you can't deny that they have always had an advantage over other minorities and even white folks
 @froyokid  it’s literally a fact that asians have a low acceptance rate. please do your research theres studies on this
LMAO THIS IS TRUE.... all 8 Ivy Leagues, and accepted for a total of 17 schools... and yet she still says the college admissions system is messed up.
 @froyokid  the asians that got in probably worked harder than most of the other races because since colleges want to have a diverse admission of students, they have higher standards for asians. A full score in sat or gpa doesnt mean much for an asian male in today's society if they are aiming for the top schools. Especially since there is so much competition in the asian community, it's hard to stand out with just good grades. There are many colleges that might sometime accept white students with lower gpa or a worse looking college application than an asian who has a better application but doesnt have anything to make them stick out above the others in the smarter asian community.
 @richardtan1332  Ivy League refers to old schools on the East Coast. Stanford is in CA. Stanford is on the same level as Ivy League, but isn’t Harvard/Yale/Brown/Dartmouth/Columbia/Princeton/University of Pennsylvania/Cornell.
 @richardtan1332  Stanford is MORE selective than ALL ivies. However, I will point out, they’re more selective than Harvard by almost nothing.
 @Malik-zf3cn Are you referring to all Asians,  including South Asian people?
 Federal Reserve  They're 13, they're not matured to the point of understanding how to properly make points yet. Cut the child some slack.
 @alanikairyu8696  Black people are one of the most helped races by affirmative action, so no.
 @Malik-zf3cn  no that's not true, it is harder for blacks to get admitted into a IVY league university. I saw many ivy league students who are from asian and european background.
 @ClassierAunt  Affirmative action works in the favor of blacks. Easier for admission with lower test scores compared to their asian counterpart. It is just that the average Sat scores of asians are higher than other races, making them better candidates. It is not easier for asians to get in than blacks though. Two identical candidates one black one asian the black will get admitted
That's entirely wrong. The admission system works with points you get for specific privileges so the less you have, the easier to get in. For example the chance for a female asian immigrant whose parents are divorced and who needs to apply for student loans to get into an ivy league school is much higher than for a white male American student whose parents are married and wealthy although they may have the same grades or his are even slightly better. The exceptions are athletes and students whose family members attended the same university. I think this system is super unfair because it focuses so much on giving everyone a chance and completely neglects the efforts certain students put into getting in this specific school. I would personally feel really bad if I knew I'd only attend this school because of my background rather than what I've achieved.
 @chrisaugustin9181  5 years later is crazy. And I don't see how it's not
Preston Pener what an intelligent person who also came across pretty sweet too.
omg ikr! she seems to be a very humble and sweet person, i hope everything goes well for her in the future💗
Im glad she did. She seems nice, and very deserving of that.
That's insane. You could have an amazing application and basically be a champion at everything you do in life but even that may not be enough; there is still luck involved into the process.
I literally had to pause and take that in for a second, like all of them have different criteria that they want in a student and she met every one of them—
She obviously has worked very hard to be where she is now. I’m glad she is so successful because she seems so sweet!
Cassandra got famous for her college essay that went viral after she got into a lot of schools! A lot of people really praised it as good writing. In HS, she interviewed a lot of famous people.
remember she is in the arts, i believe she said! colleges are looking for diversity!!!!
Her name is Cassandra Hsiao. Her essay was about learning English as a first gen immigrant.
wave pick there aren’t 17 Ivy Leagues but there are definitely 17 Ivy-tier schools
We all know why that is though. It's not impressive when your parents bribe your way in
 @Lauren-rl4eu  so your implying her parents payed of 7 separate ivy colleges just so she could eventually choose one ? that makes no sense
Damn i still have 8 years and my dream is to get in to harvard so wish me luck ;-;
Mr.Lunatic Panda if you don't get in as an undergrad, you can get a.grad degree or if you can do really well you can transfer somewhere else.
I grew up with her haha and she’s super sweet 😩😩
for those curious i will drop a video about my stats soon on my channel!!!
"I did get into all 8 ivy league schools."  Damn, I can hardly do my homework on time.
Cory's attitude about Yale is less of an individual problem and is more of a symptom of how many people think their self worth is tied to the prestige of their career and education, and think you have to be a superstar to succeed.
Asian dude comes from a good place but doesn’t understand the struggle.
"You're the one that got into Yale, It came from here and You, Yale didn't put that in you" - Speak your Wisdom Saul
I got accepted into UC Berkeley, Cornell, and Harvard. I went to UC Berkeley for since it was the most affordable of the three and had a great first year. Unfortunately, there was a family member that needed hospice care and my mom was overwhelmed. This was after a divorce that happened two years before. I left and went to community college. I was so angry at that time, not at my family but at the situation. But it was what I needed to humble myself. I’m actually doing a lot better now, no debt, graduated, have two profession in two different fields and planning to go to med school.
Saul is 85? hes looking great, I thought he was like 60
These students afterwards when they run into life problems:  Better call Saul
some of the things cory says do raise red flags but y’all gotta cut him some slack- y’all are literally hating on him for being proud of making it to yale. he’s said that yale was his goal all his life and as a first gen asian american kid his parents hv put expectations and emphasis on education so he probably feels extremely satisfied with himself knowing he’s made his parents and himself proud. the only thing i’m worried about is after he graduates yale he might just lose his way and be a little confused on what he does after that since he alr made it to yale, his goal
I'll just say it ... No one is lucky 17 times in a row, that girl has something special that apparently every university admission center saw. And there's nothing wrong with it, it's wonderful for her.
The college education system in America is unfair because your mistakes follow you like a criminal record. I get academic dishonesty or plagiarism, but not getting a bad grade in a class. It makes going back to school extremely difficult, expensive, and can automatically disqualify you from so many opportunities just because of mistakes you made when you were a teenager.
me, a european, whose university system is completely different from the US' and no idea wtf an ivy league is "Ooh, i gotta watch this."
anyone else agree that Saul is really respectful and must be protected?😂
why are we not talking about how that girl just said she got into all the ivy’s
when the CC students talked about how embarrassed they are about their school, the fact that the ivy league students tried comforting them into changing their mindset rather than acknowledging/criticizing that they had to be embarrassed in the first place proves a point for me. don’t get me wrong it was a great discussion and the ivy league students were beyond nice and compassionate it’s just really difficult to say that these two have the same playing field in their lives
I feel like the 85 year old college graduate was a lot more wiser than the guy from yale
Sometimes what u want to do in life doesn’t require university
Is no one going to talk about Cassandra getting into 17 schools plus all the ivy league schools.
As someone who went to community college and then transferred to a private 4 year, it’s not the school that makes you, it’s your brain capacity. I could tell anyone I went to any Ivy League and they would believe me. There is only a stigma associated with CC’s if you internalize it. The education you get is what you make of it no matter where you go.
It's insane that Saul is 85 years old; he looks about 20 years younger than that
My heart instantly melted when Saul said “I’m Saul and I graduated recently from Santa Monica Community College”
Romeo A. theres only 8 ivy leagues, the other 9 schools of the 17 were just universitys
She’s my goal. But I can’t do it because my transcript has already been “ruined”, except not really ruined so I don’t feel bad about it, just not good enough for ALL 8 IVIES like.. damn.. a flex... and I will not even apply to all 8 because I would only want to go to a few of them anyways. Anyways I’m very very nervous aha.
going to drop a vid revealing stats on my channel! stay tuned
yours Matt, is truly one of the bet comments i have seen on Youtube.
Well as much as you try to deny it but of course your job and salary and education are tied to your character, which is why you find a lot of similarities between people who share one of them. For example, you tend to find people at harder universities more disciplined
 @passingforcoffee249  discipline has almost nothing to do with character... you can be "disciplined" and be a terrible person who only cares about themself and what they have to gain. There are so many rich people who view lower class citizens the same as animals. That's not exactly a positive character trait.
 @moca545  do you own the school? It's literally just a building. When it gets EVENTUALLY bulldozed, you'll just be bragging about a plot of land that once had a building on it. You need more love in your life. What school you went to doesn't mean much. It's the job you actually get that matters in the world.
 @beefortebrea9386  I am not sure how did you tie your comment to mine as I never said that people who are disciplined are better human beings.
Correct Matt. So many people in the states are obsessed with status in general.
 @passingforcoffee249  There are MANY factors that contribute to one’s character, not just one’s choosing of a Uni or college.
 @passingforcoffee249  And you also have a tendency and high probability of finding psychopaths and sociopaths as CEOs, entrepreneurs and polititans. All highly disciplined, all egocentric, narcissistic megalomaniacs within the sadism spectrum.
100% agree. you can’t lose yourself in what “makes” you. you go through experiences in college as a young adult regardless of where you go… a literal growing experience. you can pay for education and get more opportunities, but a degree is a degree.
Bros whole personality is about Yale. Typical book kid that thinks academics are the end all be all In life
I think his upbringing as an asian american/ 1st generation child of immigrants is also a major part of this.
This is really so true. Like, it just take me feel bad if anything because he ties himself to it as if he isn't his own person
You are very poorly traveled if you think that's solely a United States thing.
 @beefortebrea9386 their now rigorous selection process ensures that the quality of most incoming students is higher than “average.” The matter can be as simple as that.
agreed... people often ask what do you do for a living meaning a job as opposed to what you do that makes you happy which I believe is more important
 @rc7625   You use quotation marks but noone said "rebuttal" so why you're using these I don't know
​ @FlowerTower  It has zero to do with "poorly travelled", that's a silly assumption. At this point its been slammed into the minds of everyone via the internet or entertainment, there's no excuse not to know if you're on the internet.
​ @moca545 as much employers likes to put a reputable school at top of their resume piles to look at. They hate kids who think like this.
That will come crashing down when he graduates and experiences the real world.
 @passingforcoffee249  You should watch the video "I asked Harvard students who they are voting for in 2024". I don't know if disciplined or even intelligent is the word.
 @passingforcoffee249  I've found the most intelligent people to be the ones who've traveled and gotten out more. Not the people who have gotten into an Ivy League. I've met some people at Ivy League who couldn't even name 5 countries in Africa.
Yeh but he’s still very young relatively, a lot of college students are
Winterhascome and the facts that he will be like “oh yeah I relate to that you”
Winterhascome just wondering but can I ask how? I don’t really see it. He said he’s a first gen american & he obviously worked hard for where he is? just wanted to know how y’all came to that conclusion
Just because you have privilege doesn’t mean your getting into a Ivy League school. He probably had to work very hard and probably had to spend time studying rather than hanging out with his friends. So yeah he hasn’t struggled in the exact same way but he can kind of relate in some ways.
He is the epitome of an elitist.  Take that college away and see what he brags about.
Winterhascome Are you blaming him for being birthed in a better situation?
skorpia g that’s a bit harsh, you can see him trying to empathise.
Joey Yazbeck   Look. I went to schools with primarily first-gen Asians (and I don’t mean just East Asians).   The school admission is trying to have a quota so that it can admit more students of color (so basically everyone other than white or Asian)  For college, we have to study the hardest and have the most extracurricular because colleges have their quotas on race in the first place.  Stop blaming some privileged Asians- which by the way, don’t compose most Asians, and start working harder in school.   Cause most of the privileged Asians, I do know are not first-gen.  Fact is, 10 percent of the world owns 80 percent of the wealth. Another fact is if you have access to the internet you are already more privileged. If you have running water, a roof over your head, and food. Don’t make it a privileged game, even if people have more privileges than you. Doesn’t change anything. Help people without bringing others down.
I was in middle school once, and I can say that people did not try. And now they’re complaining.  Some teachers are terrible. But also, a lot of students are terrible.   They don’t even try, and then blame their failures on everything else. Except themselves.  The Pygmalion effect exists, sure, but you can overcome it.
jeisa Jeis  mine didnt lol she had almost no money
 @auhng  The people that don't try at school always blame it on privilege and everything but them.
He is young, give him time to see out side world and go out of his comfort zone, all that experience probably will change his views.
He had to work incredibly hard to get where he is I don’t think anyone understands that struggle
@Winterhascome He worked hard and studied. I cab see the jealous one.
Because he thinks his school is amazing and worked hard. Jealous.
His arents came here. And he got to go to school.
[VTX] Shadow uhm but didn’t we already go over this with the admissions scandal? People are on blast right now because people are literally  getting in based solely on privilege.  Yes privilege can provide you with an Ivy League education on its own.  Edit: I don’t know this guy everyone’s mad at but just a weak argument imo
@Au never said i wasn't privileged, just saying we're in the same boat, but don't make it not look like a privilege game please. It changes absolutely everything. Not saying i'm ok with how the system works, it's incredulously inequitable but it is how it works. There is such thing as privilege. If you're a good student, that's great, and that most definitively proves that you worked hard. But education is education, school is school, meaning it isn't about your grades that makes you privileged, it's the school you're going to. If there is one job open and there are 2 candidates and 1 of them graduated from  Yale and the other from a normal college and they both studied the exact same thing, the person who graduated from Yale will most probably get the job...because he graduated from Yale. That my friend is what you call privilege.
Jillian Jacques lol people didn’t get into Yale for being privileged, mainly for being smart and having connections. That’s not considered privilege. That’s considered hard work and dedication.
 @iuxexe3299   not true at all. Many kids do try in school, and actually succeed, yet they don't go to high end colleges. How do you not see that?
 @vtxshadow  I'm not saying he didn't work hard. I'm saying that he wouldn't have gotten to where he was if it weren't for his privilege and luck. Getting into college isn't always about "hard work"
Jordan Grant ok but what about the Chinese kid who’s parents payed 1.2 million to get them into the school? They faked playing difficult and physically demanding sports because they could afford to set it all up.  How is that not getting in on privilege?  Edit: obviously I believe that these people are the exception not the rule.
Joey Yazbeck   That’s not privilege.   Do you know how hard my cousins had to do to get into ivy leagues?   They gave up a lot.
That's true he obviously comes from a good place but he's very ignorant to the struggle and is obviously very privileged
Jillian Jacques   Yes because that is every Asian kid. How about that white girl who had got in by paying their way in. How about the Asians who get turned away because of the “diversity” quotas, and the “diverse people” that get accepted instead.  Don’t make it a race thing.  It only creates more prejudice
 @zero2105  no one's blaming him it's just an observation, he seems like a great guy and he's obviously super smart and has worked hard to get to his school, but it's a privilege to even get to go there.  I feel like he has a lot to learn in other aspects of life, there's an air of innocent ignorance around him like he doesn't really understand how far the struggle of others go.
 @auhng  you are right about the stop blaming other people for their privilege part, if you really want to get to where you a re work hard for it instead of blaming other, but being able to pay for those things for a good college for stuff like that, that's a huge privilege dude, some people have to work a thousand times harder than others, but if you really want something you should be okay with working as much as you need to
 @auhng  this is so well said. I am not Asian but i understand were you are coming from
​@Winterhascome I think it's more of a case of him being a horse with blinkers on. He'll eventually mature and gain more life experience to realize that going to/graduating from Yale isn't all there is to life.   However, some people who have regrets about what they didn't get to achieve due to a lack of luck or effort tend to feel bitter throughout life. Belittling the achievements of others, assuming others find them inferior because they feel that way themselves😅  I can empathize with people who have learning disabilities and/or suffered emotional distress which made applying themselves at school an even bigger challenge. However, some people who are perfectly able didn't work as hard as they could have. It'll be unfair of them to dismiss the achievements of others who did.
Stop hating on him because he’s worked hard to get where he is, and probably studied lots. Just because someone is privileged doesn’t mean they’re bad people
Saori stop throwing the word PRIVILEGED around you fools.  Just because he goes to Yale doesn’t mean he’s privileged he’s LUCKY.  When a community college student and a Yale student sign for the same job more likely the Yale student will get the job bcus they graduated from their. THATS privilege
 @Sadaaaaf  Periodt people degrading him and calling him privileged are just jealous.💅😍
Saori The first comment was clearly an attack on the guy. You could see the hate in their heart. I know people who come from horrible households but still come out better than ever. Never blaming someone else for being born into households with better opportunities than yourself. I’m those kinds of people. The Asian guy even stated that he doesn’t try to be better than others.
Au while there’s some truth to what you’ve stated here, your still rather naive if you don’t think privilege changes anything
a.bby44 not sure if anyone replied to your comment yet, I didn’t even realize this started with my comment LOL but some 1st gen Americans do have family members from the homeland who are very wealthy in their country. I’m also 1st gen American for my family but my great grandmother was a doctor from Vietnam who came to America. Of course she didn’t give us money because she believed in hard work and earning your money, but she did help bring other relatives to America for a better life.
Max Jenkins-king Yeah, im sure he has worked hard, but listening to the stories of those who went to CC seem to have financial struggles that he may not have. And that’s a big thing about going to college, is the debt that comes afterwards. Many even choose not to go to college because of the financial demand. As for him, he was able to focus on getting a good education because financially, he doesn’t seem bothered. Not saying that’s wrong at all!! Just saying that right now, he doesn’t seem to be able to emphasize with the others, and only identifies that he comes from and works with “the best”
following curiositytoday I appreciate your comment. It has its own perspective and worded in a way that is very positive. Thank you.
aei - you say to stop throwing the word privilege around, but yet you did the same thing when you said getting a job because someone went to Yale is privilege. So please clarify, I’m a bit confused about your statement.
When I said he comes from a good place, I did not mean home or his family background. What I meant is the words he is actually saying. What he’s saying comes from a good place because he has no intention to belittle anyone. However, by hearing his responses to the other side, there seemed to be no emotional connection. That led me to my opinion that he can’t relate to the others’ struggle/hustle. I could be wrong, but that’s what I meant.   I didn’t mean that he was privileged.
Yeah. I think it's because he's still young and naive and still learning.
I agree he seems sorta closed minded but I do believe he did work hard and did struggle maybe not as much as others but I don’t think he got into school because of his money
 @a.bby4441  there are extremely wealthy families in China and his family are probably one of them.  I've met two Chinese students from my University who's families were both extremely wealthy as well, but they definitely weren't as humble as Cory.
Kristine Nguyen How about replying to the comments making good points? Other than the one helping you. Kinda close minded don’t you think? I’m surprised the first person that replied to you even got that many likes. They’re clearly the type to blame others for their own misfortune
@jeisa Jeis yea but hes a college student. His parents didnt come over yesterday.
@Winterhascome So, is it his fault for getting M@s5!v3 advantages and comes from good place?
 @1Skorpia  you're just jealous. You absolutely know nothing how is his life and what he have been through to get where he is right now
yeah like idealistically he says he would never judge her school, but if he was a boss examing a yale alumni applicant and a community college applicant, who would he choose?
Sometimes it is who you know not what you know. NEVER forget that. School admission is the first example of that..later jobs become the same way. Money and Networking ALWAYS puts you on top. Just the game. Unfair but reality.
lovelyrosebw   Ironically, that’s the exact opposite of what I said. You can complain about privilege, but it won’t change anything. That’s what I said.
lovelyrosebw   If the only thing you do is complain about privilege, you might not use the things you already have to your utmost advantage. You do get more scholarships if you come from a poorer family. It’s easier to get into certain colleges because you’re not white and Asian, and colleges want to be diverse.   And secondly, I was saying that a lot of us are already privileged. Look, I lived in a basement before because my parents couldn’t afford an apartment. My parents went from poor immigrants to semi-well-off. Yes, they could have complained about the discrimination they faced, and yes, if they were white and not immigrants, they probably would be earning more now. But they aren’t.   There’s a difference between speaking out and complaining. One is trying to make a change, the other doesn’t provide one.
@jeisa Jeis exactly. People still think all the new immigrants are struggling and poor but these new elites and privileged immigrants are taking over
 @jordangrant8211  your daddy having money and connections that got you into yale doesn't mean it was hard work and dedication  LMAO
Darkness awww I didn’t realize whomever I replied to affected you so much! Did you want attention for something? Don’t you think it’s funny how you blame people who you assume to be close minded yet..aren’t you the same for making that assumption? People usually dislike traits that they see within themselves so if you need anything, let me know :)
 @jozefya  Winter said "He’s obviously, and annoyingly... " so he already applied a negative impression based on where the kid came from, you're trying to downplay the negative judgement winter displayed
 @kristine7893  he probably had no financial struggles but speaking from the immigrant Asian perspective, there's a major lack of emotional and social support and a lot of trauma fighting your parents trying to make it to ivy league
 @auhng  It wasn't about race though? I was just trying to narrow down who I was talking about. Lots of people of all colors got caught doing this. I just for the sake of example decided to use that one kid. Olivia jade is white as frick and she's famous yet still pulling this crap. I get it don't worry.
 @1Skorpia  so your telling me that without his college name, hes a nobody? Clearly you are being insensitive just because he got into a prestigious school. He worked hard to get into that college, so even without the college name, he would still be better than the majority. (especially someone like you...)
Most real comment about Cory I see in this comment section
He knows nothing of the real world struggles middle class/lower Middle class/ poor have. Probably won’t help him when he’s out in his own. Did Yale prepare him for that?
Ashley S  He will be fine when he is out on his own. Why is everyone hating on him just for being born? He worked hard to get to where he is and is obviously working hard to stay where he is. That work ethic will inevitably transfer over into life after college
 @jozefya  Why is that unfair? Graduating from top universities means that you are most likely more talented and have worked harder since it is harder to get into a top university. If i was hiring people I would higher the person from yale as well.
 @andrewqian9029  just because you are more talented than someone doesn't mean you have the same ressources as them. Now it's been a while since I've seen this video but I'm pretty sure he didn't say he got there through a scholarship of some sorts, unlike the girl who did. Listen man, I'm not hating on the guy. He might be a very good person. Hell, he might even be someone's hero one day for all i know. All I'm saying is this: privilege is when you can provide something for yourself or your family something that the majority of the population cannot, and 90% of the case it's because that majority isn't able to afford it. Having money in itself is privilege. Being able to wake up in the morning with a roof over your head is a privilege. It's just that some people wake up under the roof of a mansion for example. Now his parents may have worked they're asses off, but all he ever did was get good grades and apply to Yale. His parents are the one that paid for it. It isn't the generic notion of privilege that you have come to know, but it's definitely a form of it. It's not unfair, it's just a privilege. That's all.
 @jozefya  yes but then he is privileged because his parents have given him money to pay for tuition, I still disagree with the fact that you said he is privileged because  if a yale graduate and a normal college graduate apply for the same job, the yale grad would probably get that job, I think that's the way the world should work because on average, the people who went to yale have to work harder.
 @andrewqian9029  on what basis do they have to work harder. It's litteraly just a reputation. I don't think you learn different things about the same major in 2 different universities. You learn the same thing. If you're studying engineering in Sorbonne per example, you will receive the same information as a student who is studying engineering in a university that isn't as highly reputable. It's just the reputation that comes into play here. Also, it's just like what @kristine N. said, he comes from a good place but he doesn't know the struggle. To him, the only struggle he knows of is studying intensively, that's it. It's his parents that most likely struggled the most. But that struggle allowed them to put their son in a well reputed university. I don't want to say that he's benefiting from his parents' struggle cuz that would make him sound ungrateful, but that kind of is what's going on here. He's benefiting from his parents' hardships to be where he's at now. And finally, let me just make one last thing clear please. I never said the being privileged is unfair. I don't believe there should be a negative connotation on the word "privilege". It just happens to some people and not for others. That kid didn't choose to be privileged, he just happens to be the son of parents who "made it". That isn't a bad thing or an unfair thing, it's just privilege. Please don't at me anymore cuz if you don't see where I'm coming from or not understanding my point of view, then you most probably never will, which isn't a bad thing, u are entitled to your opinion. It's just that, without being too much of a dick, i feel like i have made my point on the subject and shared my own understanding of the notion of ''privilege''. Thanks😊
 @jozefya  ah well I respect your opinion and I didn't mean to sound aggressive if I did I just disagreed and wanted to talk about it
 @andrewqian9029  oh no don't worry about it, I didn't find you aggressive at all. As a matter of fact , thank you for allowing me to have a civil discussion about what i feel is quite a sensitive subject today😊 feels good to know that there are still some people who ask questions and accept all sorts of answers 👌
Au “specialized high school” damn that already sounds privileged to me, and here my high school barely had any AP classes— it’s hard to compete against people who had more AP classes (opportunities) than I had
Kristine N. Anyone could go to any college they want to they have many different things at colleges to help with financial some of these people just aren’t smart enough to go to Ivy League Colleges!!!
If u think abt it , he oso had to work hard for his position
 @1Skorpia  Agreed. He comes off as being too "by the books" that studying is literally ALL that he is. No real personality, personality, taste, or originality.
skorpia g you just proved his point take football away what can a football player say.
Aaron Lee yeah it is. You don’t get into a good college for grades. You get in for what you did on high school.
 @jordangrant8211 , huh? A ton of ivy league students only got in cuz of who their parents are lmao. Either they've got family that are alumni or mommy and daddy make "donations." Seriously, I think it was almost 2/3 of Harvards student body are legacy students (if I remember what the source said correctly)
 @peenerparker846 , being an immigrant doesn't automatically mean struggle lmao, especially for asian immigrants. Soooo many asian immigrants are well off. They come here while the poor stay back in their countries
 @a.bby4441  did you here about the money he pays for his tuition, paid for entirely by his parents. His parents are definitely rich or going into debt with him as their one egg in a basket. He no doubt worked hard, but he's been groomed to be that way.
that's not true... on average Asians have to get higher grades to get into colleges compared to other races. He probably worked his ass off to get into Yale while other kids partied and have fun. For him that is the struggle. Studying everyday so that he can get into Ivy League
Everyone talks about white privilege, but a lot of people don’t realize Asians also have extremely good chances at going to Harvard etc even better than white individuals in most cases.
Дмитрий Лебедев Ok that's just not true. That's what the whole harvard court case was over- asians need to get higher standardized test scores compared to white ppl to be admitted, and w/o interviews they're docked "personality" points.
Jaywalker_462 we really dont know his specific case. theres loads of immigrants that also come because theyre poor or escaping war and the parents come for work.
 @jaywalker_4629  Agreed.  And Cory mentioned this too, that some people got in based on connections and that took spots away from legitimate candidates.
 @kristine7893  Translation: He got into Yale based on his merits, not his connections.  He didn't have any connections to give him any advantage to get into Yale.  He had to work harder than most people because he didn't have connections. That being said, once he does graduate from Yale, now he does have that Yale connection to help him.
 @rayven1178  Man, I really dislike when people assume that people who got good grades are all robots.  Lots of Asians act proper in school, but when they go back to their home, they be rapping in their Asian rap, creating interesting YouTube videos, writing interesting mystery pieces.
 @jaywalker_4629  That's not Asian society's fault. That's the United States immigration laws fault.  That's because the United States bans common Asians from even sniffing immigration.  If you are a poor farmer Asian, you almost have zero chance of being allowed to immigrate into the United States.
First gen Asians struggle in a different way. There's a lot of pressure to fit the "model minority" stereotype. This is why so many young Asians base their self-worth on where they go for undergrad. It really becomes your identity. He didn't struggle with money but he struggled with contemporary social constructs
Kristine N. I feel bad that he angers me so much
He worked really hard to get into Yale, no doubt. Sure, he's more privileged than some of the others here in terms of finance and access, but it shouldn't discount his own drive and goals in life. Also, Asians all know how hard the struggle is to live up to our parents' expectations.. it can be like nothing else.
@jeisa Jeis Being a first-gen is still difficult even if your parents are well off. Integrating into American culture while balancing the expectations of your parent's culture is a constant struggle sometimes even beyond adulthood.
​ @1Skorpia  All the accomplishments that got him there in the first place. Unless you are legacy or donate a lot of money, you don't just end up in an Ivy League institution. You have to be extremely smart, well rounded, and also very lucky. The admissions process of an elite institution is what makes an elite institution so valuable because only truly talented or hardworking students can get in.
 @svmathtutor , when did I say that was asian society's fault? If you're gonna respond to me don't strawman
 @alexbohatch3503  Holy Cr@p.  So you're saying Asian kids don't work or study hard?  Oh boy, are you wrong.
 @rayven1178  That's false.  Ivy Leagues require more than just grades, so if he got into Yale, he's got the whole packages -- grades, awards, extracurrculars, community work, etc.
 @erichkaufmann5284  Not really.  It's harder for Asians because there's an oversupply of qualified Asians so even if an Asian student is qualified, he/she can easily become a victim of  the secret 20% cap on Asian students.
@jeisa Jeis   Not true. First generation means that his parents came and stayed in the US. His parents went through the cultural revolution and came to pursue an education while poor. No one was allowed to come to the US during the cultural revolution. I know because that's how my family came to be.
That's what happens when you are a good boy studying 24/7 and your parents provide a lot of support. He is very lucky, he just needs to keep going on this path.
Jillian Jacques bruh now you’re just making this into a race issue and straight up targeting Asians in general. The Chinese kid who paid 1.2 million isn’t an Asian American immigrant, she was a native Chinese mainlander who’s parents owned a pharmaceutical company in China. The argument was about Asian American immigrants who struggled to get here and pursue an education, not mainland Chinese who were born into wealth already. Educate yourself and maybe be more cognizant of your racial biases.
I honestly gotta agree with you. I believe he worked hard to get into Yale because of the way he talks about it but by the way that he called they Yale graduates in his field “ the best” ( at 16:50) really proves that he at least subconsciously doesn’t understand or believe that going to an Ivy League doesn’t necessarily make you smarter or than everyone else that didn’t
 @1Skorpia  Why r u so salty? He’s a smart guy that got into his dream university and that is not exactly “easy” to accomplish.
 @jozefya  Is it really "privilege" if his parents worked their asses off as immigrants to get to the middle class for him to work hard and get to Yale? Sometimes people conflate privilege and hard work/talent.
 @cccspwn  Oh boy. It's been quite a while since i've seen this video or even talked about it haha. Ok so here's the thing, and again, this is my own opinion so i'm not trying to disrespect anyone. The thing about privilege is this, it isn't born out of thin air. Every lineage had to start somewhere shitty. Donald trump's dad had to work his ass off to make his fortune, then jr made it bigger. Trump's children henceforth were born privileged. See what I mean? Their grandfather, hell, maybe even their great-grandfather had to suffer and sacrifice a lot, but it doesn't change the fact that Trump's kids were born with silver spoons in their mouths. Sure, they worked hard to have the kind of careers they have, but someone without any of the resources they were offered as children would have to work waaaay harder to get to same level. Image getting a bit clearer? Bottom line is this: hard work and talent can coexist with privilege, they don't nullify it. You can be both. And this kid, sorry to say it (yet again), is privileged. Again, not a bad thing, it just is what it is.
Yep. He needs to be humbled. The way he said things were so subtly rude.
 @Laura-Yu    Old comment, but here's a reply:  I had to study hard. It's not a private school where you had to pay to get in. I think nowadays, those high schools are def more elitist than before, compared to when I first got in. Privilege doesn't mean that people don't study hard, but they have access to more opportunities. You want better schools, you have to do systemic change, but it does not mean trying to kick other minorities or even the majority down.
 @vtxshadow  no he can't, when you have the best education money can offer and are able to have all the time of the world to dedicate to studying without having to worry about finances or anything of the sort is way easier to be admitted, he will never be able to relate to a common person who most of the times have to work on a part time job, and have to study all by themselves
 @kmusic160  so does the other ivy league asian girl, in the last bit she sounded very idealistic
and there's a community of people at Yale that influence him during his formative years. he doesn't exist in a vacuum in Yale. Saul is basically a pseudo-intellectual.
Thadius Sean it has been proven that people who get accepted into ivy league but don’t attend end up being just as successful later in life as people who graduated from these colleges
Generic wisdom. And yeah a pseudo-intellect is a perfect way of explaining that.
 @MrCrackheadst  uhmmm people who can't afford to pay......like in the video that one girl with many siblings and she had to sacrifice her chances, people have different circumstances.  Also the study I'm referring to was conducted by a Princeton economist(forgot his name) as the head researcher.  Also, most of Fortune 100 CEO'S didn't attend ivy leagues,  only 11% did. Of top 10 CEO'S only jeff bezos attended princeton, rest were from state universities .
Saul is wise and most of y’all won’t understand that till later in your own life. There is a difference between being smart and wise. I would rather be wise but I was lucky to be blessed with smarts. Saul is not some pseudo-intellectual. He is very humble and wise man. I don’t like a lot of people from private or high end schools. You can tell that they have something up their butts.
I'd be curious about a comparison of household incomes prior to college.
 @MuditVerma  interestingly enough according to a study by nytimes, The median family income of a student attending Harvard is $168,800, and 67% come from the top 20 percent of usa and 15% students from top 1%. About 1.8% of students at Harvard came from a poor family but became a rich adult.
 @akutenshi6946  that's true. I'm from the Philippines, my aunt has been a nurse at John Hopkins since the 80s. Their household income is probably around that range, even higher I suppose, and I have a cousin studying at an Ivy League school.
 @thadiussean9133  but you said it yourself. The people influence him. But so did the 17 or 18 years he lived before that. His parents, middle school and highschool friends. All the people who have loved and disliked him. Yale is an influence on the every growing and developing character that he is. Saul did not say it would not influence him and change him as a person, he simply stated the fact that he was not characterised by being a Yale student and to limit himself as such is a injustice to himself. I'm someone who applied to only 3 school for college. 2 were the top in my state and ranked around 20 something and 30 something in the country. But the one I ended up going to is slightly over 100 in the U.S. but I choose because of who I am. It's the school that I felt was right for me. I choose the school because I just like many people who attend universities choose where they feel better. Because they are the individual who is taking a new path. A path that will change them. But not identify them. To limit Saul's life wisdom to being pseudo-intellectual negates all the things he learned along the way. He referenced his military background. Which I would argue would be a bigger part of someone's identity than a school. Yet he didnt say it was his identity.
 @MrCrackheadst  I know a girl who went to my small private college instead of going to Yale. Also if Ivy schools don't give enough money then that would be a lot debt that could be avoided if they went somewhere else.
I don’t get why people are saying he’s a pseudo intellectual. Didn’t he just give advice?
People in 20s judging Saul as if they understand about life more than him.
You could have just asked Berkeley for a leave of absence and done the same thing at the CC before returning to Berkeley. These comments seem like a lot of people don't realize this.
Nice story lol how long did it take to craft this one?
When did you attend cuz I know Berkeley is very generous with aid and would allow a leave of absence
Berkeley isnt that different from ivy league in how pretentious it is and how competitive it is - so you saved yourself lol
 @Mina-np5pl  it's school, not a job. There is no LOA for class. If you have to leave, there is a waiver.
when did u do pre-med to get into med school? tf
My community college College was like public high school 10th grade.
What was important is that you did what was necessary and you kept pushing for better.
I turned down Stanford.  True story.  I was there at an event and someone asked me if I wanted some coffee but I turned them down.  Felt empowering.
 @wjrasmussen666  Keep telling yourself that bud, probably working at fast food while you see this comment.
 @Mina-np5pl  I lost both my parents in the same week at a university and dropped out for a solid year.  I came back and sent an appeal for my scholarships (TOPS is pending for my brother's death certificate), and got them back along with some student loans.  I'm graduating next quarter and glad that school is finally about to be over and I can make my own decent amount of money for the first time.
 @robertshipley6990 oh my 😂😢 heck no you’re discouraging me about going to community college.
 @career5690  but anything academic- violin, bassoon abroad in Vienna or Czech Republic; art history and Italian language abroad in Florence; Finance of any sort.....
 @career5690  they had Anatomy with cadavers, calculus based physics for scientists and engineers, organic chemistry and up to differential equations in math
I thought harvard was need blind to domestic and international students?
"for since it was" yeah i'm not gonna believe you got into berkeley with that level of english.
​ @puredemon1231 I'm so sorry for your loss.  I wish you nothing but the best.
 @Mina-np5pl  How long is the leave of absence? It seems like the situation called for them to leave for more than a year.
Berkeley certainly has much better weather than those 2 Ivy League schools as well. I'm glad to hear things are going well for you now.
If it was true u would have chosen Harvard cuz who wouldn't
 @kyv2431 yeah ts is not true Harvard has a 1% acceptance rate as a transfer. And that one percent is not coming from a community college
 @provoked_zyrox3831  i mean he could probably get away for being 13
I would have said 65 but damn he still looks good
Saul flex the old bull but strut like a young calf god damn
I thought he was 70 or so, but not 85. I have seen people in their late 50s and 60s and do tend to look a bit younger. Still, either way, he does look like he takes care of himself.
It's the privelege of having parents who push you for me. ❤
No I think it’s because he said “I am competing with the best people”
 @natashakobelsky6899  just a lil slip of words , he's competing with the most competitive people
It’s okay to be proud of the school you go to ofc, that’s amazing. But he makes Yale seem like that’s what made him, when it didn’t.
I was very much into school as well, and I have an obsessive personality and low social skills.    School was the only thing with a level playing feild for me, where I won't be measured for my looks or punished for not making friends as a kid and having poor social skills.
ya like i get him because thats my goal, and if i make it you better believe im saying it to everyone i meet because they have an insanely low acceptance rate
no literally like he worked hard and earned his place hes allowed to be proud even litttle smug like they sacrfice a lot (not all of them) and i respect that
Absolutely, she Must've worked extremely hard and she deserves all the success she gets. I'm sure she had no time to really have a fun time though.
I was just about to say five times maybe? But 17 holy cow!
 @ZarriawithaJ  Yes ... 4 or 5 of 17, it can be. And I don't know if she was just trying to be nice to everyone, but that way of establishing that everything was luck and nothing special about her... Hopefully it was really that kindness of not wanting to sound bad, because she really deserves to be proud of it.
 @eri6984  I think she mentioned that she liked Yale since they support the artists in there, she is an artist, and generally artists have fun doing their art.   Apart from that it is a myth that to be excellent at something you must give up "fun", with a balanced life it is possible to develop intellectually or artistically.
 @JMTgpro  yeah it is kinda wrong mindset. My bff is excellent student I swear there is no happier person than her 😂😂😂 So having fun is subjective.
Some people feel like they have to be "humble" to be liked. Look at people like Kanye who proclaim their greatness and get hated on lol
Luck probably was involved but there were obviously still skill there, just like what she said.
A major part of the application and admission is due to luck, as much as I dislike thinking that, and it's not only true for USA. In between the European Universities, during the application there will be so many students who meet the criteria and have every possible box checked: Volunteering, Social Year, Extraculicular examinations, Foreign Languages, etc. In this case even the Universities themselves accept the fact that the lucky applicant is chosen randomly by the system, which is generally sad.
Ik it aint none of my business but im so so curious about her college essay, transcript and application as a whole like im so curious on what she did that ALL ivy leagues accepted her. Like I’m truly impressed wow
But she's a small percentage of people who got in based souly on merit not money and family name. We can all agree it happens probably more than we'd like to think.
ONEJDA NDREU but I still don’t believe that’s luck, that sounds like privilege. Because to get to the point where they can toss your name in a hat and say “any of these students will do” you have to get past the preliminary. Which is checking all those boxes. To be able to volunteer and study foreign languages and play sports comes from some sort of privilege, whether your parents have just enough money to send you to college without worrying about debt, or they make just above the maximum income and now you have to work 2 part time jobs in high school because you can’t get financial aid and you don’t have the money for school, how could you have the money to become an independent and claim financial aid? That takes out a lot of time from sports and volunteer work. It’s not luck, it’s privilege. Of course this is not to say that they don’t deserve it, good on them for all their extracurriculars and accomplishments, but someone poor could’ve done the same thing if they were born to a family with more money.
But she has a point, Asians can be discriminated against in application processes, sometimes admissions counselors are in bad moods, and there’s just a cap like only so many spots available. Someone else who is academically and extracurricularly identical to her may not have gotten in. Lucky is huge part of all our lives, whether we realize it or not.
Ikr my aunt had to work her ass off to get into Harvard
J Melchor I think what she meant was that statistically, even with the perfect application like inhumanly perfect, you can still fly under the radar.  It’s abnormal that so many people were able to identify her potential.  Most exceptional people don’t obviously present as exceptional, especially in standardized settings.  So yes, in a sense, she is lucky.
Cassandra was insanely talented. She was student body president, she was a teen journalist for a newspaper, she interviewed a bunch of celebrities, and she was an extremely talented writer. All of that plus a bunch of other accomplishments in high school set her apart and allowed her to be accepted by all the schools she applied to. She was a very hard worker.
 @jillianjacques4190  Yes, it is fortunate that she has been recognized and not be part of those exceptional ones that go under the radar, but as Saul said ... "Yale didn't put that (Her talent) into her" those 17 schools just recognized something in a world where it is easier to ignore and that is something to be proud of.
J Melchor This girl deserves every ounce of pride most would feel for her accomplishments, and yet she choses to embrace that she is fortunate to have been recognized and I think that is her most impressive quality. It’s hard to be humble once you’ve accomplished things seemingly impossible and she does it seemingly effortlessly. I do agree with you though, conventionally speaking. If we’re checking the boxes of what makes the perfect student she fills them all.  That’s not what impressed me most though.
I feel similar to her. I applied to 23 schools and got accepted into 21. I was so flabbergasted when those letters kept flowing in the mail. I felt that it had to be pure luck because I joined 0 organizations, clubs or sports. So, I do think that luck is the answer sometimes.
 Creole Chicken  I assumed they knew her from school to be so forward with such claims.
Some are saying being Asian would take away chances of being accepted, but wouldn't it help her? So the school can look more diverse?
Oh, she knows she wasn't just lucky. She's smart enough to know to say that though.
Creole Chicken I’m sorry.. what has that got to do with race?
 Creole Chicken  You're more than likely correct, though this person did seem rather sure of themselves. I also know that because of how standardized the admissions process is, she probably did do all of those things even if they don't know her.   Of course, I'm not of the opinion that those particular hoops are a good measure of capability and readiness for post-secondary. Not on their own at least, but they are the reality.
 Creole Chicken  wowowoahwoahwoah there buddy. You're implying that her family is the alumni of 17 Ivy League universities?  Also, how can you get off saying 'people don't know her how could they possibly know what she did" and then yourself say for certain that she didn't have the single most impressive application anyones ever seen? You can't have both. What does this girls situation have to do with the dude who got in with a 3.0 GPA? You don't know her GPA.
 Creole Chicken  I think you should re-read everything you said..."there are people who have done more impressive things than her" is one vast assumption for someone who doesn't know her and is calling people out for making vast assumptions about her. I think the ivy league legacy admittance may have been an issue in clarity so my apologies for that bit.
It made me sad that so many people have probably tried to knock her down a peg and she thinks it doesn't have that much to do with her.
 Creole Chicken I didn't double comment 5 hours ago. You commented in between. Where you mentioned that there were probably so many people who outperformed her and talked about people with 3.0 GPA's getting into Ivy Leagues on Legacy admission.
 Creole Chicken  to be accepted in all ivy league is rly impressive but you have to realize her field of study is nowhere near as competitive like others. She went into art. If she went into biology or something else, she probably wouldve been middle of the pack
 Creole Chicken  No like I'm serious, that comment has disappeared on my end unless what's happening is you're denying ever saying those things. Then man idk, I'm sure there are people here who saw it.
 @jillianjacques4190  I too saw that comment. I've been lurking for a while. You alright Creole? Did you perhaps not get into your first choice of med school?
 Creole Chicken  I literally wasn't talking about this though. We were commenting on how this girl was amazing to be excepted into so many schools, and I said she was smart enough to pretend she's lucky. Maybe spend your time arguing with people that actually disagree with you
Jillian Jacques yeah don’t worry it doesn’t come up for me here too but I’ve can see it in the email notification
Creole Chicken interesting that we’re all applauding this girl that got her seventeen first choices but apparently you getting your first choice makes us your haters huh? It’s definitely nothing to do with your insecure argumentative ramblings
Sounds like she's an arts major that schools want to round out its class of typical Type-A students.
you're right!!! 17 lucky is insane. what i meant to say was that luck played a factor in every single acceptance, but it certainly wasn’t the only factor. im going to drop a video soon revealing my stats, which is one factor of acceptances
Hello Comment she got into all 8 ivy leagues but applied to 17 schools and got into all of them
From listening to her talk and how well spoken and empathetic she is it's so clear how special she is. I really hope she does great things
Ikr. 17 times is amazing. I call that being blessed not lucky.
So researching high schools i'd like to apply to , i found out she's an alumni of the creative writing conservatory at a selective art high school in my area. Ivies look for the passion and interest factor, people who they NEED to contribute and lead in their community . It just so happened that ALL the ivies wanted someone like her, as her passion and the way she articulated that in admissions must have really interested them.
So humble too! Way more than Cory, and if anyone has reason to brag it's her 😂
Jillian Jacques this is the most underrated reply. I completely agree. It’s so hard to find exceptional students in a standardized process like the admissions one.
 @marcellaaxelrad644  Asians are very well-represented in the university population, so the diversity factor doesn't really help them. my former tutor was in Oxbridge admissions and the bell curve for Asians is also a lot higher. that is to say, the average Asian generally has to perform MUCH better than the average person of another race (whether white or non-white) to get in, because they're competing with members of their own race thanks to diversity quotas
 @anthonyt425  fun is extremely subjective..to some it's reading a novel, to some it is attending a rave party..to some it's just staying at home doing nothing to others it may be a world tour...so ivy college attendees don't have fun is  judgemental
not to mention she's also Asian-American, and the admissions process systematically disadvantages them, so this is a Boss Level accomplishment.
 @onejdandreu4297  i can guarantee you that she did not get accepted 17 times because of luck. she has an essay that went viral on the internet.
 @marcellaaxelrad644  Because from my knowledge, colleges are required to be relatively representative of our population - so there are racial quotas. So essentially, each race is put into a piece of the pie, but given that Asians are a minority, many people are competing against one another for a limited amount of spots available to them. Additionally, most of their competition (other Asian students) are usually full of crazy credentials/accomplishments because when you're competing with that kind of pool of students, grades aren't enough to make you stand out since the majority of them are straight-A, high ACT/SAT score students.
 @jungkookbts2819  oops this is very late but she's very transparent about her admissions!! In fact I originally clicked on this video when it first came out because I recognized her through a news article publishing her common app main essay. She also listed all her extracurricular activities which largely revolved around journalism and interviewing famous celebrities.
It literally depends on how the admission officers feel the day they review their application; sure, you could be very accomplished as a youngster but it’s not a guarantee you’ll get in. It’s still a great thing she got all 17.
Absolutely! That girl MUST have something in her that caught the admission center's eye. But that's good for her, I am happy for her! Her hard work payed off!
 @mike112693  What do you mean it's less competitive? There are plenty of people dreaming of becoming an artist. I'd say there are more people into arts than biology. So I don't see how her field is less competitive than biology.
 @violet.c  You can google the stats. Most people at ivy leagues go into business, comp sci, biology, engineering etc. Those are very competitive and have a lot of asian students in those fields. Not many asians go into arts. Also, the girl may have done something that really stood out in the art field that made her get accepted to all ivy leagues. I think she's downplaying what she did to get in.
Something that people forget about is that schools want diversity to look good, Asian, latinx, African Americans etc are more likely to get in when those schools need the numbers than say some regular white kid. So technically there is a certain amount of luck plus the hard work, luck of being born Asian
 @angel-se9zl  She got into 17 universities and 7 Ivy leagues too.
I worked my ass off just to get into one university and I'm sticking with that lol, thankfully it's my dream uni
I honestly don't understand some of these comments on this video. Saying how it's "sad" that a person's identity is built through a school they should be proud of. And suddenly people are cheering people on and shaming the people in ivy schools.
 @josephcontreras461  Well, actually, being Asian lowers your chances, because, like so many other comments said, there are diversity quotas, and the more kids of a specific race, the harder it is to get in because you are competing with more people. Especially Asian Americans applying to Ivy Leagues.
Getting into all Ivies despite being held to a much higher standard as an Asian. Must have been an extremely special applicant.
The fact that the girl thinks she can get away with saying that it’s due to luck just blows me away. I understand people try to be humble sometimes, but don’t blatantly lie about things just to seem humble when you know full well that it wasn’t because of “luck” you got into 17 different schools, including all ivy league schools
 @marcellaaxelrad644  No, it wouldn't. There are many Asians in top schools. Schools want to look more diverse by accepting other POC/ minorities that aren't Asian.
Agreed but also makes me wonder how much did it cost her to apply to 17 schools!
She was lucky to be born rich, attractive and big brained. She was lucky a million times in a row
No college acceptance is through luck. This isn't movies, she has something special they want
Yes, she must've had excellent grades. She had to have also been pretty involved in extracurricular activities as well.
Absolutely. I find it quite ridiculous that these decisions are made when we’re literal children, and yet, they carry on to negatively affect our lives
 @queenv22  Teachers who literally plagirize there assignments, ideas, materials, tests, quizzes etc fromhead to toe👁👁👄👁
You have so many options though. You can drop the class, make it pass/fail, retake it to show you improved. And some college students are teens sure, but they’re also adults, maybe 5 years from getting a full time job. Jobs won’t hold your hand through big time mistakes.
 @leguminous7564  I think they’re also talking about hs classes, cause those follow you for years. Colleges and Universities will look at you hs grades and they can choose not to except you if you failed a class. With hs you can’t just drop the course and retake it another year either. You can obviously retake the course but you’ll still have the previous grade on you transcript. But I do agree that’s jobs won’t hold your hands through mistakes but a lot of times they will give multiple chances. Where as colleges and universities can be way more “picky” in a sense.
I mean college is just taking more classes and doing academics so if you don't do well in high school... it's so competitive that it kind of has to be this way
Not just that, but also if you had a serious medical issue you were not aware of at the time but were affected by the symptoms. There must be some form of ‘grade forgiveness’ in such cases.
 @mysticstep4553 nah. Plagiarizing is passing off work as their own and punishable especially when for profit but these are teachers who usually state other people works to teach people. They also follow a school circumulum
How does it work? What exactly is the GPA thing? Here, where I live, we have a few pathway options with the most common one involving receiving a selection rank that is calculated based off your performance against all the other students in your state/territory through exams as well as tests/assignments we have throughout our final year of high school. Unis don't usually look at anything else unless you apply for special consideration or a scholarship in which case they may look at things such as financial hardship, illness, where you live, volunteering, leadership etc.
For me, I tried my best in school, but mentally couldn't keep up because I didn't have a stable and peaceful home. I lived in fear. I also had ADD that my parents never took care of.
In seriously trying to understand this system, where getting higher education means not to be intelligent but to have money or be good in sports xD
 @katerinafolvarcna1698  Schools are businesses. They try to select individuals who they think could go on to make a ton money (like think mark zuckerberg kinds of money) that they then could donate to the school, or who could then serve as networking nodes for future students.
Conchita G mainly, but ivy league are also the highest ranked schools on the east coast for a reason
It's like oxford & cambridge vs your  local college lol
Me too. I live in Europe. College is college. 🤷🏽‍♀️  The US is a such a capitalist country. $100K to get in. What the hell! 🤦🏽‍♀️
Some people think I didn’t watch the video? lol But like Jen Mar said - 100k for uni? Sheesh. I literally pay 9k for 4 years in university. In total. And it’s game development and graphic design which isn’t one of the cheaper degrees.
And ofcourse I know it depends on the countries income level. But the amount education costs in the US is completely unreasonable. And the 9k here is still not alot. That’s a little over 1k in a semester and barely over 200 a month if you pay monthly. If the average salary is 800€ this is more than fine.
Same but Canadian XD i didn't understand this at all at first
Ivy leagues were basically the first universities in the united states and now theyre the most expensive and prestigious/super hard to get into
Yeah,I had no idea wgar it is too but I persumed that communizy college must be more afordable because of the word "community".
Danijela Pehar most community colleges have a 100% acceptance rate so having a high cost wouldn’t make sense
Most universities in Europe are equalized, which is better than the U.S.
The ivy league is a group of far more expensive schools mostly in the northeast that claim to give far better education to justify the amount the raise their prices to and to make their schools seem more enticing to go to so that they get more students (in order to get more money), also by telling many people to apply and having extreme standards for application they get their acceptance rates down and get the money you paid for application, and as a result have a name reputation which makes it look good on your resume I guess (im not an employer so)
 @katerinafolvarcna1698  Yeah, many schools will give lots of money to good athletes, because it in turn brings in more money to the school.
 @liamwilson5670  You are totally right, I agree with you on what you commented. That's why I dropped out of one of IVY League schools due to the fact that I needed to spend $500,000 dollars til I graduate from. I am now very happy about my decision.
It's not really comparable I think. In the Netherlands all universities are higher level than community college, but you can also follow courses at some of them that are as easy as community college. I don't know what country you're from but I think Ivy league is pretty much comparable to whatever is considered the most selective course at the most highly attributed university in your country.
 @JM-gd3hr  that's exactly why all access to any kind of education should be free, it's not that utopic, we're not that far.
 @liamwilson5670  exactly how catholic universities work here in Spain, but not even close to that expensiveness. Maybe being worse than sectarian catholicism is a signal.
hahahaha this is how I feel as an Aussie undergrad Science student
 @madisyncampbell5112  Could you please tell me about the college/university system in Canada?
Harmony Alexandria ummm. Not counting those who get in because of athletics, but the majority of students who get into ivy leagues were in the top 1% of they’re high school. They got into ivy leagues not because they didn’t have anything exceptional about them, but because they DO have exceptional qualities.  And I’m not saying you have to go to an Ivy League but you should go to a top ranked college or a good college if you want to get a good education. Why is it that top colleges have good education? One, because the majority of people there got in because they were the top student in their high school. So if most people there are like close to geniuses, then it automatically cranks up the competitive level. And when competition increases, people will strive to become better, and also uplift the educational quality of the school in general. Two, because in order to be a college professor at those schools, you have to have a PhD. So top colleges have some of the best professors. In community college, the teachers don’t need PhD degrees. Three, top colleges provide the best resources. If you go major in science at a community college, I’m certain if you do a lab there, the quality and the ability to accomplish in depth labs will be highly limited.  And I’m also not saying that there’s nothing wrong about ivy leagues. I personally think Harvard is way too overrated, and of course, many times, they prioritize students (the rich). But still, the majority of students didn’t get into ivy leagues through money but through their academic achievements or through how much they contributed to society and have shown their leadership skills; only a portion got in through athletics.
I am europeanen and know what Ivy League is! Just be informed
 @JM-gd3hr  Schools are institutions for education; NOT businesses. Only in America where capitalism reaches into every part of society is it a business. Everything you do is a business, because the only thing that matters is money. For-profit prisons, expensive healthcare and schooling just isnt a thing in the rest of the developed world.
 @davidandersson3369  The comment I responded to was referring specifically to Ivy League universities in the US, which very much are businesses.
Ivy League in America is kind of similar to the Russel Group in UK. I'm not one hundred percent sure about ivy League but I know that ivy League and Russell group normally get better results overall compared to other Uni's/colleges (I'm 13 so don't come at me if I'm wrong)
You want to learn about US universities and I think that is really cool! I like too learn too
Classmates who went to Ivy League as well have colleagues from Ivy League quickly made me realize they are in general far from that brilliant as one would expect them to be. Hearing how some get in because of sports, is just laughable and only pulls their names further down.
Y'all prob got expensive private schools tho lol cuz I went to one 😂
Haha you think in europe getting elite education is free? Of course some of the excellence universities are close to free, but if you want something close to the level of ivy league universities you gotta dig deep in your pockets...
Oh please, Europe totally has an “Ivy League”: Cambridge and Oxford are respected far above any other European universities
 @aa-zq2fr  it isn't just the east coast. They tend to be the best schools in the world.
Jordan Womack true, I mean theyre all located on the east.
 @madisyncampbell5112  Hey, first of all, sorry for the late reply and secondly, thank you for your informative answer!! Do you know whether there is any financial aid for foreigners wanting to study for a certificate or 2-year course in Canada?  I hope you are doing well!!
Daniel Livingston  i hope you’re aware europe is not england
ELLEN WU Did you forget that the United States cover only about 6% of earth and other parts are water and other countries where there’s no such thing as Ivy League?
Conchita G There’s more then just price. An Ivy League college is just a very very smart college
??7991¿¿ no Well ofcourse every country has colleges/universities that are better than the other but I don’t think many categorize them like they do in the US. 🙄
Apparently it costs 100k to go to University in the U.S.A. To get into Cambridge or Oxford, it costs about 9-10k per year to go there and the U.K is considered the most expensive European country for university tuition.
Roberts Vimba that’s so weird. I’m from Jamaica and everyone here knows what an Ivy League school is
Roberts Vimba yeah there just hess huge crazy smart schools you need to be a great person and have great grades to get in
 @Greekhistoryyy  well as for my country uni is free. No money until you turn 26. That's when you're expected to start working. Of you don't finish uni until 26 you have to pay bit it's such a small amount compared to these huge numbers x.x also state universities are of better prestige than private ones...
basically prestigious school that have existed for a long time. Through that prestige it costs end up higher. think of it more like a 5 star restaurant vs mcdonalds. also euro colleges are more akin to US high school.
The Ivy League was originally formed in 1954 as an athletic league. The term has since come to represent the schools' elite status, academic excellence, and rich traditions. I kind of look at it as the rich version of a regular university.
He's a great guy, would definitely like to drink with him.
Agreed, but being protected doesn't let someone become like Saul, he must have gone through alot to acquire that wisdom.
Because Ivy League Schools don’t matter in the long run in life
Arran Vid it may not matter to some people, but her acceptances really shows her hardworking ability (especially with asians being less likely to be accepted into colleges). no one gets into an ivy league cause they’re “just smart” and she definitely worked her butt off.
 @aspiknf  I mean it kinda of does matter. It makes a huge difference if your applying for a job and have entered an Ivy League or a community college.
No one applies to 17 schools because they actually want to go to all of them. I feel like she applied just to see if she could get in and now she has something cool to brag about.
sara kroczyk Exactly 👍. But then again I've seen some vids about people applying  to quite a few places. But it would be for the same reason, to brag...
 @sarakroczyk321  I think it's more like she wanted to have options and back up plans like most collage applicants do ^^
 @alegnaroviya8856  16 is a lot of backups. And you have to pay for each application fee. 5 or 6 backups is reasonable but 16....idk about that
 @sarakroczyk321 Ivy League and prestigious unis/colleges have harsh raffle-like admissions depending on how many students apply. If you want to make sure you attend a  good school,  you really have to bulk up on the amount you apply to in order to combat the student competitivity. I've seen multiple hardworking students get denied from Princeton, UChicago,  UCLA, NYU, but get accepted into Yale, Harvard or RICE purely because of how random the acceptances can be.    It's possible that she's part of the 1-2 percent of students who somehow get accepted into all of her schools, but you have to consider if she submitted applications to "lesser ranked" or private schools with a higher chance of being accepted.    Side Note:  You have to pay to submit an application form. Students who have to live with student loans even with heavy financial aid (though I understand they did mention being supported by their parents) wouldn't just waste so much money for 17 applications, considering they typically range from 25-60 usd each.
 @aspiknf  true. You may have a certain type of boss that will hire someone from Harvard compared to a regular college. But after your first job it does not matter at all because employers are now interested in your achievements in your job not your university.
 @sarakroczyk321  Its so that they have options when their others fail. Say you apply to only 1 college but they dont accept you. Whatd you do then. Especially in Ivy League schools where competition to get into them is really high, the chances of getting in too low. You have to have a back up plan. The more back up plans you have, the better
 @sarakroczyk321  Not all colleges have an application fee. Some of them even let you apply to them for free if they recognize you
sara kroczyk up to 100$ per application just to have bragging rights? no way. im thinking maybe she was planning on majoring in different fields depending on which college she got into which is why she applied to so many
Xaelium asians are definitely not less likely to get into college. them & white people get into uni the most
 @aspiknf  Sounds like someone from a comunity college would say lol
André Gonçalves Not really, a job is going to pick the best suited with most experience, best personality, etc. College is college. One of my professors worked with one of the top people in his field, he didn’t go to (and doesn’t work at) an ivy school.
André Gonçalves not really. A lot of jobs who have hired Ivy League student s have complained about them not knowing what to do or having no true experience like what the colleges advertise. In the long run people need someone who can actually work and do what they need to do. Even google said they are opening all positions up for anyone who has reliable experience because the kids coming from top colleges weren’t doing their jobs properly.
sara kroczyk I’ve known people who have applied to 10 schools and still got rejected to almost all, only leaving one option and no choice. What if she was one of those students with perfect grades and lots of school activities but still got rejected from all 17 applications? That happens, this could have been a fear of hers.
Arran Vid That’s one of the broadest brush statements in the entire comments section! From an employment standpoint, it opens so many more doors in your 20’s. Many employers in the Northeast won’t even give you an interview if you’re not I y league educated.  Not sure what you’re exactly referring to, please elaborate
 @natalier4053  Most experience? No one has experience right after graduating lol. Ivy League is not necessary but it does help.
sara kroczyk people that intelligent are above bragging about getting into all Ivy League schools. Newsflash, if you get accepted into Harvard, you’re highly likely to get into all of them. (Unless you live in the state where the University)
Bait_01 it would be 7 back-ups, there are 8 schools!! You must be in community college!!! Hahahaha, JK BRA!
[starie] also if you live in NJ, your odds of getting into Princeton (in-state) go down significantly
chiara floriano You’re lying or just uninformed. If a white, black and Asian all have the same credentials, the Asian will be the first to get denied. This is public, factual information.
Random Youtube Watcher While I agree with you, that example of the scores was INSANELY imbalanced to the point where I laughed out loud. Blacks get in with 1000 over an Asian with 1600?!?!? HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA
André Gonçalves if you live in a Small town or small city, you are less likely to compete in the job market with someone from an Ivy League school.
 @sarakroczyk321  Yes, 16 a little much, but I don't think its fair to automatically assume the worst of people when it could have just been misinterpreted. You know what I mean?
 @sarakroczyk321  see really that shows to say that she must have the money to have done that.
 @honeybee7879  how does it? I can go to a non- ivy league school and still come out on top. How does it really matter?
Arran Vid well name all the businesses u know, it’s not 300 million, name all the actors u know, not 300 million. Name directors, activist, politicians, musicians, investors, etc. There aren’t 300 million people in the world that are rich.  Listen, if u think u can make it best of luck but guess wat, it’s safer to go to college, 6% of our pop is in the billions. So sure u don’t need it. I mean if u want it U DON’T JUST GET IT.  Poor people who win the lottery tend to go bankrupt.... I wonder why
And she’s what? Becoming like an artist? LMAO. GL with that
if i were accepted into all ivy’s nobody would be able to tell me nothing
 @alegnaroviya8856  yea I know what you mean. It's possible she honestly thought she needed to apply to that many schools, but from.what I've heard she was an over achiever in highschool and really had nothing to worry about when applying to colleges.
sara kroczyk Somebody is mad that they didn’t get into a shitty school
David Petkov being Asian means that people have to work harder to get in, the majority being Asian is because Asians work harder than other peopel
 @GotStones1  lol no they arent. What makes you think they are above bragging? You don't think some people who go to ivy league schools brag about it to friends, family, coworkers etc. I know some people don't but this girl just went out and said she got accepted to all 17 schools she applied to like everybody was dying to know.....sure she's not making it sound like bragging but she definetly Makin sure they all knew she was good enough to be accepted to all those schools.
Just Anon Almost every student will have internship or apprenticeship experience, volunteer work, or jobs depending on your field. So yes, experience is completely reasonable to achieve and expect for graduates. And I was also regarding jobs in general, they don’t go by which college you attend.
chiara floriano yes they are. there are several scandals revolving around universities having higher standards for asians (making it so that its way harder for asians to get in) to “maintain the american culture”
David Petkov actually, majority are white. if you compare an asian with a 4.0 GPA with a hispanic or caucasian with a slightly lower GPA, that hispanic or caucasian will get into as opposed to the asian.   asians who apply to ivy leagues are usually more qualified but have a less chance of getting in because ivy leagues want to preserve the american culture  (search up affirmative action)
sara kroczyk her parents paid 100$ per application for bragging rights for their daughter?? that doesnt make sense man. even in this video she doesnt brag about her acceptances, only uses them as points to her conversations
 @Xaelium  I really just think everyone replying to this comment are intelligent people. I haven't seen any comment saying something that doesn't make any sense.
Nita Bailey i’m not great with sarcasm, so i can’t tell if you’re joking or not (i also can’t tell which one of my comments you replied to)
Just Anon, hi :-) I was the best in medical school and I went to two medical schools, Sofia Medical University in Bulgaria and Charles University 1st Faculty of Medicine but I got kicked out of both because of an addiction problem and psychological issues, I'm not a normal guy, I have suicidal thoughts and sociopathic tendencies, it was just the way I was born. After I got kicked out I got a Foundation Accounting degree in another university so no I didn't go to a Community College. I'm just saying that Ivy League Schools and universities don't matter in the long run, I think your competence at work is more long lasting and will be what helps you in decades of your life...not a few years in a university. I'm not being mean and I'm not bragging, I just wanted to open up and share part of my story. I'm now on course to memorizing 100,000 digits of pi, yeah I'm weird in a way. Btw I wish you the best of luck in your future and studies :-)
Ryan VanGelder or they are back up schools I plan to sign up for 7ivy league schools BECAUSE I want to have that option to choose and if I don’t get into sum I have those y’all always want to find the negative in things
Her parents more than likely paid for those apps and pushed her to apply. Just speaking from an Asian perspective lol
Xaelium Asians being less likely to be accepted into colleges? Somehow I don’t believe that where did you get that information?
André Gonçalves depends on the job actually. Community college students do transfer to a university too so...  Lawyer? Prestige matters.   Doctor? It doesn’t matter if you went to community college or ivy leagues. Med schools give almost zero fucks.
 @bubbles4897  What is meant to be said is that Asians have to try harder to get into certain colleges. Affirmative action still exists although it maybe weaker.
 @neverbackdown1918  If u looked at the universities that doctors went too, I highly doubt that u would see any from community college. I shadowed a doctor who told that if I wanted to be competitive for med school I should at lowest aim for a school like UCSB
 @shirleytatha8189  I'm sorry I'm not sure which of my comments your referring to.
 @tinobernaldiaz5411  they don't have degrees from community college but more than a handful could have easily transfered from community college. That's the goal for a lot of people in community college
 @sarakroczyk321  Oh sorry. The one where you said no one applies to 17 schools unless they just want something to brag about or something like that. Maybe she doesn't want to brag about it, but just to be proud of yourself, for such an accomplishment
Can we talk about how much money she spend to apply for all those schools? 😂
 @sarakroczyk321  Sorry I am Kenyan so I guess there are some things I do not get... but wait, you have to pay to apply for school?
going to drop a video soon bout my stats, one out of many factors of the admissions process! stay tuned
 @shirleytatha8189  yes you have to pay an application fee. They are usually between 50-100 U.S dollars for each application.
 @jeydkabigas5193  most people tend to work before and while in college. That experience helps. True it may not have been in their current field but you still learn a lot that is transferrable.
How is no saying she legit said “people might think it’s really expensive and it really is”.....lol
I hate the stigma. I went to an expensive private school but had incredible community college professors in my graduate school prep classes
 @sarakroczyk321  I mean even of she  did apply to 17 schools to brag about it, I don't think its a reason to criticize her for it she chose to do her study and work for that 17 schools its well deserved for someone like that
 @이림림-p3y  i dont think there is anything wrong with wanting to show off something you worked hard for but she applied and got accepted to 17 prestigious colleges. Do you know how many people get waitlisted and rejected from those schools because of the huge number of applicants they get? If she really wasn't sure which school she wanted to go to fine, but to do it just to show off knowing she didn't want to go to some of those schools really isn't cool. She could be the reason someone who may have worked hard as well and really wanted to go to a particular school didnt get the chance. If you dont plan on going to a school anyway dont apply! Give somebody else a chance.
 @이림림-p3y  ok again if she's actually interested in all 17 schools and is just trying to decide which she likes best I get get it. But there are people who apply to a huge amount of schools just to brag and its running other peoples chances of getting into the schools. Being good at something doesn't mean you should use that in way that causes people who are already struggling to have a harder time getting accepted. Shes talented and hard working and its not bad to show that and be proud but imagine how that person who studied thier ass off just to get waitlisted or denied felt.
 @sarakroczyk321  I think you misunderstand the college admissions process in this day and age. In All the college reaction videos on YouTube, these kids are applying from 15-25 schools because they are genuinely unsure of where they’re going to get in. No matter how smart or talented you are, there are now going to be hundreds exactly like you, which makes college just a luck game at this point.
 @mags9739  its only a luck game if you apply to schools that typically don't accept students with your stats. I have gone through the process and will again in a year when I transfer and can't imagine even finding 15-25 schools that fit my criteria. Its good to aim high and I understand applying to schools being unsure of whether you'll get accepted but why so many? Narrow it down to the once you are genuinely interested in and save everyone involved in the process some time and effort.
 @sarakroczyk321  I’ve gone through the process as well, and I can say that most people I know at public schools applied to 15-20 schools. So many factors come into play. Let’s start with the fact that there are more people with perfect GPAs and SAT and ACT scores than there are spots at these top colleges. There’s also international students who may be just as brilliant. The simple fact is that the amount of kids who have the stats you need to get in vs the amount of spots these colleges actually have don’t match up. So, even if you have perfect stats, it’s still very much luck-based. The girl did what is normal for a lot of high schoolers and she maximized her chances of getting in by applying to all schools she would feel happy at.
 @mags9739  i went to public school as well and while I know there were people who did apply to that many schools majority didn't. And my point isnt that its easy to get accepted or that having backups is bad. My point is that theres no way people applying to 17 schools actually want to go to all 17. People are just applying to random schools that are difficult to get into and then after being accepted realizing that the school was never a good match for them.
 @sarakroczyk321  Yes, a lot of them apply for name only, but again it’s because of how much of a crapshoot the process is. They want to go to schools with good rankings, but any top 20 school is a reach school, and they would rather go to one of these T20s than their safety school. So I think it makes perfect sense that they apply to that many, so they can maximize their chances of getting in. I’m not saying it’s necessarily good, but the American college process is designed in this way to make students feel inadequate and scared
this comment! the ivy students felt the need to assure them as if their assurance was necessary validation for the cc students to feel okay about their decision to attend cc. the ivy students were compassionate but condescending and not very understanding of the cc students situations.
 @renoseiji  The ivy league students weren't being condescending. I feel like you didn't listen to the entirety of what they said, but only the part where that one girl said "you're really well spoken" etc. But, she was saying that in order to follow up with her actual point - she was using the community college student's positive attributes to show that the stigma is incorrect. She basically said, "you're really smart, and that's why you and community college students who value their time at their schools shouldnt listen to the stigma". This does not sound like an assurance at all to me. I only have an issue with the point about a stigma against ivy league students, because it is not as significant and really doesn't do as much damage to people as a stigma against community college students does.
Because they’re on camera, if they did care they wouldn’t have gone to an Ivy League
 @renoseiji  lol so u think they shouldve been rude to them instead of comforting them?
 @yehetthatbread6285  the older guy seemed to have more of both imo
 @andrewkear5639  I don't think so. His statement that he felt the admissions process was fair because of the diversity he saw on campus was fairly incompetent. The level of diversity, to some extent, is what makes the process so unfair. Schools put a huge focus on being able to develop a diverse environment that they will often take less qualified individuals for the sake of diversity. Now, of course, diversity is incredibly important -- so I'm not saying it's a bad decision on the part of the admissions officers; nevertheless, still an unfair system.
Correlation does not equal causation. So how much of the 85 year old being wiser is because of his age, vs because of his education background?  Just something to think about!
Pi Day Rocks yeah but the system has changed. he said he was 85 so im guessing he means when he was applying it was a fair system.
 @purpleties127  The system was never fair, frankly. Back when he was applying, the world was significantly more racist and sexist than it is today... and so white males had a significant advantage over everyone else regardless of merit. Nowadays, schools want to be as diverse as possible for multiple reasons: to show that they "changed"; to enhance the experiences of students; to build a better, more well-rounded community.   The reason he thought the system was a lot more fair now is because he was comparing it to back when he was a kid (a time in which diversity was heavily lacking). He certainly was talking about the process now as only now do we have diversity -- which, again, is a great thing for the students in the college but is certainly an unfair system for those trying to enter based solely on merit.
Gabrielle Diaz no dip. Wisdom is always defined by your age
There’s a difference between wisdom and knowledge, of course with age and experience comes wisdom
"wiser" or "more wise" but not both, the -er suffix already denotes a subjectively greater quantity, so the "more" is redundant.
I feel like the guy from Yale wasn’t confident and hardly made eye contact. Same. I just feel like he should be use to public speaking by now
Well he is 85, I’d think someone that age would be wiser than say a 18-21 year old, I know younger people can be wise too but older people are usually wiser with lots of wisdom
As someone gets older, they get more wiser; bcuz of their self experience. A person at a top college doesn’t have to be the best of the best. I’ve met people who didn’t go to a high educated college but have self educated themselves to be successful 🙏🏻
 @pidayrocks2235  It's a community college.  The admission process for community college could very well seem fair
Gee I wonder why? Maybe because he's lived over 4x the guys lifetime?
Yeah shout out to the firefighters, construction workers, estheticians, electricians, carpenters, and artists. Most importantly shout out to the under-paid lifesavers: lifeguards, and emts/paramedics. Shout out to those who continue to work in jobs that are being automated bc our consumer-capitalist society did you dirty.
Clarence Davis III that increased paycheck isn’t necessarily a sure thing
Romeo Barnes actually if two employees have the same standard level of education and workplace performance the worker with a College degree will get the raise/promotion. Assuming workplace discrimination isn’t a factor.
I want to be a car, literally. Arms and legs transplanted for wheels.
Al He in some cases an employee is overlooked due to their sex,gender identity ,or race rather than qualifications for a promotion.
I want to  get loads of cash but not study guess im gonna go real estate? I got the cash to start my stress free life :)
Biwod braysonna no it’s not fair and that why I keep a team of lawyers.
Josh Castro you probs gonna end up richer than most people who go to college lol
I strongly think on what Cassandra did was THE IMPOSSIBLE which to me that was an astonishing feat by her getting herself into 17 elite colleges.
Cassandra is insanely talented. She was student body president, she was a teen journalist for a newspaper, she interviewed a bunch of celebrities, and she was an extremely talented writer. All of that set her apart and allowed her to be accepted by all the schools she applied to. She was a very hard worker.
It's been known for some time that ivy leagues prefer Asians.
 @elizabethwelander3702  You must be in community college because you didn't include sources
 @amys495  *DISCRIMINATE against Asians lol  It's just that Asians have better scores compared to other races. Look up the stats
SJB i think part of the reason why is that Asian kids work really hard too. Their parents have high expectations and set high standards and so they are able to get into the best schools.
Asian Dod lol she went to my school. She graduated a couple years ago.
She truly goes against that stereotype that all Ivy League School students are spoiled and only there cause they're a family has money(which if you look into it is so false) and that she got there through her hard work and perseverance.
 @elizabethwelander3702  OMG Elizabeth lol I was just looking at my recommended and I was like IS THAT CASSANDRA IN THE THUMBNAIL and then I found your comment
Michelle Yu LOL haha yeah I remember after she graduated everyone was like “omg Cassandra got into all 8 Ivy Leagues” and I was like asdfghjkl but If someone was gonna do it it was Cassandra
Quasimodo or maybe you’re just a sad case of someone who has no working ethics. Hardworking people do exist, whether you’re aware of it or not. Some people (unlike yourself), don’t need parents to care about their grades.
 @crissoa  Asians with tiger mom's also tend to have high rate of depression and anxiety.  I'm not saying they're not deserving. I should've worded it better but among PoC, Asians tend to get in a lot more.
SJB that’s a possibility or maybe it’s honestly just a personality trait. Some people are neurotic and cave under pressure.
my mom thinks I’m gonna do that but who’s gonna tell her I don’t even have a 3.8
SJB  - Like Hugh Jass said, Ivy Leagues don’t “prefer” Asians. Asians usually have a harder time, for example the lawsuit against Harvard for discrimination against Asians. It’s been known for some time that Asians have had a lower acceptance rate than Black, White, and Latino applicants despite having the same test scores. This is all because of minority quotas which can hurt Asian applicants’ chances.
 @1Skorpia  either finance, some sort of science or med considering that's what elite ivy league students generally choose as majors
Ais Stein-San or maybe some people just have an actual work ethic
 @ariannagoodman9277   correction higher test scores, we get higher and still rejected
Criss O yeah it’s not like they just get into those schools. They work extremely hard and sacrifice a lot compared to other students.
bout to drop a stats video on my channel! stay tuned
Me! As an international student, is very difficult to know if you’re gonna get in or not (specially if you need a full scholarship like me)
린시   It’s not really false, a lot of ivy league kids are rich and did go to prep schools. Poor kids are by and large a minority there.
 @amys495  Quite the opposite, asians have lower admission rates for identical gpas. There was a whole scandal amount it with Harvard and Stanford citing the discrimination.
 @elizabethwelander3702  it's pretty easy to be a standout student in journalism when you come from a very privileged background
SJB Umm...mainly because many Asian countries’ education system are not corrupt or broken like many schools in America. South Korea’s school system is one of the top school systems in the whole world, beating United States. Included Netherlands and many more...so no. Your statement is ignorant. And like what someone else here said, look at the stats! Asians averagely get the highest scores. Don’t be salty haha
Quasimodo who hurt you? For you to presume terrible thing about her family.
I just don't understand applying to that many schools unless she was just wanting to have bragging rights. Typically you choose your top 3-5 and apply to them. If you know your GPA, etc., is high enough to apply, why do it 17 times? Cha.
Quasimodo please don't belittle someone’s accomplishment and efforts you don't know her
 @Dios7518  Could be a "tiger dad", you know. Plenty of them too. But actually Cassandra seems grounded, modest and genuinely an intelligent, high achiever type who likes to learn, and also is geared towards tests, scores and interviews.  Some other people are smart but only like to learn, and not perform in tests and so on. But SATs and other tests, essays, assignments and so on are geared to produce a product that meets certain requirements. It's not about learning but about making it easier to measure one student against another, or 10,000 other students.
 @aaronmontgomery2055  Blame other (East) Asians. Now there are so many they're driving up the competition - making it nearly as competitive as it is back home in their super competitive countries. In the early days it was much easier for the kids of Asian immigrants to get into universities - when there weren't that many and admissions staff were more impressed, and Americans (both white and black or other groups) didn't compete as hard for spots, back in the 80s, 90s, 2000s. In the last 20 years competition has snowballed - and now Indians and other South Asians are also competing amd getting the top spots. Asian immigrants complain - but they're the ones who moved to the U.S. Their choice. And they just have to abide by the way things are there. One of the reasons that many "excellent student" Asian candidates aren't accepted by universities is they are too one dimensional, only great at math, science, IT etc and not equally great at stuff like history, English literature, art etc. And their extra-curriculars are stuff like chess, computer club etc. and they all choose classical violin or piano as instruments, and do sports like ice skating. Asian candidates who do say drama (e.g. musicals, singing), write poetry, play less obvious instruments like oboe or the drums, or do sports like field hockey or rowing, will have way better chances of impressing admissions staff. Some of the more savvy Asian parents have cottoned on to this, but most of them are stuck in culture rut of their countries, where kids do those things (learn violin/piano, ignore sports).
 @kiyohmi  What makes you say that? In South Korea it's more "fair" in that it's really just an exam score based system for university admission. They don't offer entrance and scholarship to students who are great at some sport. They don't have interviews and write personal essays, and don't have to show they ran some clubs, were school presidents, cheerleaders, or wrote the music or did the art design for their high school plays. And of course, race or ethnicity is not a factor - they're all ethnically Korean.  However, poorer parents can't afford the high cost of extra out-of-school "academy" cram schoil tuition starting from the age of like 5. Those who think that the best prep/private tutoring doesn't make a difference ...well, they just don't know, they haven't seen how it works.  It makes a big difference there in South Korea; but it also makes a difference in the U.S.  Mediocre kids there that get the best exam prep (a private extra expense) on top of their regular school (which could also be a top private school, or a top government/state school) can be elevated to perform at the top level and get into top schools - just on their own "merits."
did you credits transfer? I was thinking about doing that but Im scared they might not transfer.
 @pitapiitaa  my credits all transferred because I chose classes that my 4 year would accept. Most CC’s have transfer pathways set up to 4 year colleges so they make it easy for you to make the transition.
I was going to say the same thing.  Not only that, but mentally he seems to be doing really well.  All the 85-year-olds I know, which I suppose isn't many..they have all slowed down significantly.  If you had asked me how old Saul was I would have said late 50s, early 60s.
Drew Castronovo he goes to community college at 85 years old?
Drew Castronovo it’s all about continuing to grow and learn! It keeps you young! My grandma is 83 and is the same way, young and spunky.  She didn’t get a degree until she was in her 60’s and ended up working until her 70’s
Drew Castronovo I would have at least guessed late 50s if not 60s. Good for him! He looks great!
That’s what I couldn’t get out of my head. 85?!? He looks 65, seriously.
what's more insane is that he has to go back to school t try to a get a job at 85 in the us
I was shocked when he said 85! I seriously though late 50's!
Andy Sul     What are some of the pieces that he has written I would like to read some
@Andy Sul Andy Sul? You were never in Creative Writing... Quit lying
Emma Carstairs cuz he’s inspirational asf look how old he is and still going for his education 🥺
 @tink6225  Maybe cause he graduated college late and he looked old?
ok no ones gonna mention the fact that he's 85?  he looks way younger
Saul is so wise and well spoken. I love the line “it came from within you, Yale didn’t put that there.” He really wants to make sure they all knew that you are you because of you and not because of a building. I want to go read his books now
Saul saying, “Yale didn’t put that into you” wow! He’s so wise and kind. That young man def needed to hear that
The girl with the pinkish hair sounds a little uncomfortable being a CC student... like she'd like to be "more". I wish she knew she is doing great already.
Emily is working three jobs, plays soccer AND goes to Princeton... mad respect... mad respect
They should do an episode how far these people are in life after 5, 10, 20 years
I'm not even like 3 minutes in but I gotta say Saul deserves the WORLD.
4:53 "It came in here from you, Yale didn't put that into you"
“I got into all 8 Ivy League Schools”— I’m sorry sis WHAT
Saul looks so young for 85! I swear he doesn’t look a day over 58!
okay but props to the girl who got into all eight ivy leagues, like that’s impressive as hell
I had the grades to go to a 4 year university but decided to start at community college because it was cheaper, closer to home, and classes were much smaller therefore giving me more confidence to ask questions when needed. Fast forward and I'm currently awaiting my application status to my dream university. Community college is honestly underrated
When the Yale guy basically said that Ivy League students were “the best people” in the finance field the girl with the pink hair’s face broke my heart :(
"people think ivy league is expensive" "which it is"  idk why i was expecting something different
“competing towards the best people” he literally just proved her point that ivy league students see themselves as better than others
Saul is precious, Cory needs to do soul search. Yale is not a personality trait.
"It's Yale that built my character. That makes me the person that I am."   His parents: Am I a joke to you?
Saul is from my graduation class!!! We are all so proud of him.
When I saw him i thought he was 60 but when he said he was 85 my jaw dropped
i felt like the other dude was kinda bragging about it
Elsie Wilson fair. And tbh it is something to brag about and be proud of, but I personally wouldn’t mention such thing around people who tried to get it but couldn’t I’d feel bad about it
I understand that, but also do you think that he would have worked as hard as he did if he didn't have the goal of Yale in mind? So in a sense, didn't Yale instill a sense of whatever it was that got him in?
 @ishaujiang9332  I have a friend who was clueless, he just followed his parents' instruction and went to Harvard. "I just did what my parents told me." And then, it's Harvard that shaped him into the person he is now. He got the motivation, he changed the way of thinking, his attitude.... I agreed with what Saul said but the 'environment' does affect people too. If you are working in a place where all the ppl are punctual, doesn't it encourage you to be a 'punctual' person at work as well?
Elsie Wilson yeah kinda like high school...i thought it was my whole life at the time lol SIKE. Life is so much more than a few years of school. 🙌🏽💕
I get what the asian kid was saying, I used to go to an easy elementary school where I graduated at salutatorian without even doing my homework half the time or studying at all and had low standards for myself, then I got to middle school and I realized not studying is gonna get me bad grades and I have to actually put the work in, so my middle school made me study more and be focused which helped prepare me for high school which prepared me for college which I thought wasn't so bad  now that those other skills shaped me into a better student
truee he's someone who has so much passion for his school and puts it on a pedestal so much so that he forgets that he himself as a student is part of what makes yale good not just the school itself
I mean, bragging isn’t cool but he worked hard for that and people shouldn’t just think they got there from money or privilege necessarily
 @srirachamayo8573   One of my friends went to a Christian school for undergraduate. He was before he got accepted into Princeton for his masters one of the smartest most punctual and educated people I knew. It wasn’t a result of a school. It was just who he was.
 @tyeidandsuperego   He's good (tks to his parents maybe). Btw, I think you are mistaking something here. To answer your question, I know many ppl who are smart and hardworking, those characteristics helped them to get into the Ivy League schools. And the schools not only gave them more knowledge and experience (make them smarter) but also improve the way of their thinking. They actually had to work harder, besides wanting to compete with each other, they loved the challenges the professors gave them. That's the environment I was talking about, that could shape ppl and make them grow. Just imagine your friend would say "I'm a tidy a person because that's how my parents taught me. I've lived with them for years. Now everywhere I go, I'll always be tidy. Thanks to my parents." U get what im sayin? I'm not saying like "it's not coming from you. It's coming from the school", I'm saying it's coming from both sides. Don't underestimate how the environment can affect you. I have changed in some aspects due to hanging out with my friends for years.
 @elsiewilson8376  Perhaps he has parents who pressure him a lot at home.
 @jazmine9570  I mean a characteristic of a person can come from many places: motivation, environment, parents, siblings, or from self. Im just saying ppl denying Yale   or any Ivy league schools'  effect on a student are really naive. School in general is also an environment. If you stayed in any environment for years, you would get affected by it more or less. It's a basic thing.  Not you hating it would make it change or anything.
i am 32 now going to CC again.. well i am in culinary school which is in CC and i am comfortable with it and proud of it but when i was 18. i also went to CC and i was so embarrassed about it because many of my friends went to better universities and i felt like a failure. it's really strange because now that i am older. i realise it doesn't matter and by the time you 30. no one cares except for when you are applying for a job. lol
Shes probably had to many ppl in her life tell her or give her the sense that her community college education is less valuable and that's a shame. I hope after this experience she'll be more prideful about attending a CC
At the end of the video she joked about going to Yale and taking pictures “I’m a Yale student”. You can definitely see where she really wishes she was given a different set of cards in life.
to be fair she's studying to be a novelist, and her criteria for school choice was based on proximity, affordability and that her friends went there. Then, put her in this situation, no wonder she's defensive and not comfortable.
Zazsuran I’ve heard many people joke about many of the higher up colleges, we all wish to be looked up upon as many of those students do. We are just jealous.
I feel her because im in my 2nd and last yr at community college and plan to transfer to a uni for next yr. But during hs I really wanted to go to an art school, i applied and got accepted to all art schools with scholarships but they were SO EXPENSIVE even with the scholarships i had. During my last month in hs, i basically had no choice but to go to community college. I felt like I was at the bottom of everyone in my classes. I took AP and honors courses and was an A/B student. Almost everyone in my classes were going to unis or like straight into a 4 year school. I felt left out and i always noticed that stigma of CCs during hs, like "its ok to go to CCs!!! You're saving money!! It's just a different path to get where u want to!!" But in the end, there was always more of a push to go into unis and talks of which uni is better for what and this and that. I hated the fact that I had to go to CC so I was even planning to transfer to a public uni that offered good art programs after my first yr at CC but after my first year I met great teachers and got comfortable and decided to stay the two years. Although I don't consider myself to have school spirit , i have met a lot of great people at my CC and i am saving money because my scholarships allow me to go to CC for free at the moment. I feel like i made a good choice and dont really regret it now.
this old man is so good. Those, who are in Ivy are little bit snobs..
I go to a CC and I'm like her too :/ i actually love my school but there are serious stigmas against community college
There's stigma and also hierarchy. I went to a UC (university of California) and apparently I accepted one of the lower end ones. I ran into people who were ashamed they couldn't get into, say, UCLA. At the end of the day, it is what you make of it. If you focus on your studies and take advantage of the resources you have access to, you'll do well for yourself.
Shirley Tatha that’s is definitely respectful but on campus jobs don’t offer many hours to students. My state doesn’t allow its university students to work over 25 hours a week due to not wanting to give benefits but I’m not sure if the Ivy League system is different.
SHE IS LIVING MY DREAM LIFE @ AGE 16 -BIG pP FOR  pRINCETON...IMPOSSIBLE TO GET INTO -I AM MORE THAN WORTHY OF ucla# OLIVIA JADE -OHH THANK YOU FOR COVERING THESE NEFARIOUS DEALSNAME AND SHAME OLIVIA JADE  SCANDAL  HAPPENED AFTER ....NAME AND SHAME OLIVIA JADE!!
If she got in for soccer, does that mean that she wouldn't have gotten in based on her smarts? If the school is only for the brightest, does she struggle academically? (I assume she's fine, she sounds articulate. But it just goes to show that the Ivies are only for the smart people.)
 @Sbeth85  It's not just about your grades and intellect for Ivy schools anymore. There are millions of people with As in their AP classes that don't get into these schools because Ivy wants a person who does sports, has good grades, plays an instrument and has done a decent amount of volunteering and charity work. The standards are insane from what I've heard.
 @O_Canada  Why do they have to take it back? She's still working those jobs and going to the school and playing soccer. She still deserves respect for her hard-work.
 @joyc.e.7511  I don't know really. Looks as though she works 3 jobs part time. Could be a few hours a day to just 1 day this and 1 day that. I would be more impressed if she worked a full time 8hr/day and a part time job while being in a sport as well as being a full time student.  It sounds impressive and that is pretty much it. Criticism aside, having the extra money helps a load and I respect having to look for and doing multiple part times just to have extra income. Many people would not do that. So props are in order.
But how do you have time to do all that and pass all your classes at an Ivy League school? I’d be struggling just to study and pass..
 @Sbeth85  isn't the term ivy league originally related to collegic sports?
 @O_Canada  why such a hater? lol so what if her parents are paying for her tuition and board, how on earth does that take away from her efforts? she did the WORK to be able to get into such a demanding school and she's doing the work to stay there. She's easily putting in 60-70+ hours a week of studying, working, and being a d1 athlete. So get out of here with that
 @LauraWalez26541  my college does not let me work over 10 hours  a week T_T I barely make anything even though I have a job lol
 @theaccentman93  that's true my friends brother graduated from Harvard like two years ago and he said Harvard is full of grade inflation
 @O_Canada    umm so does every single parent in the US smh always hate what you don't have enjoy community college
Let's find a community college or public university student that works a real world full time job that doesn't give any breaks? That's for comparison.  An Ivy on campus job (2, 3, 5 jobs? doesn't matter) will limit the number of hours, also pay a dismal amount, and will work around the student's academic + athletic schedule.   It's nothing like the real world.  Don't you all look outside of your little sheltered world to see how many other people struggle? Some people have held real off-campus jobs that amounted to a 40 hour work week + full time classes.  These people have bosses that do not care about your college pursuits, especially if they will lose a cheap and easy worker.  Now that is in fact insane.  These people really do without sleep, lack convenient amenities that life at an Ivy provides,  + cram their days with a heavy work load and they get no sympathy or breaks.  They're not at a cushy Ivy where people will realize the importance of a balanced healthy life.  It's different out there.  The real world is brutal by comparison.     Having said all that for perspective, Emily has quite a time management challenge.   Respect?  Yes.  But still, that's a cushy lifestyle, and very low stress by comparison to real world college students aiming to do it all on their own.  I mean I haven't heard of too many stress induced suicides......ah wait, correction...that would be a great topic of discussion! I was about to mention student suicides at these schools. It may seem cushy, but Ivy students face a lot of pressure to be perfectionists.   I wish these schools would lighten up, and let students honestly relax + explore, instead of being so fixated on a singular route of excellence.  It would be nice if these students could get off off that narrow minded track they're on to consider the big picture in life.   I mean, ultimately it's the experience that counts.
Ohhh I really like this idea. It would be cool to see this on a lot of their debate/middle ground episodes as reunion to see where they stand in 5/10/15 years down the road and if life experience moves them
I literally stopped the video at 4:16 to read the comments, hoping to read something like this.
I didn’t even see what you posted but I gotta say you deserve the WORLD
 @beldinlov13  facts, he just showed that it was his choices who made it who he was and that it wasn't a prestigious college. Couldn't had said it any better.
Too bad it won't reach his heart...Title is everything for him.. or so it seems
Well while i loved that comment from saul you have to understand that college can change you, like a lot. Its a whole new independent experience. While it was him who got into yale, yale helped him to refine himself and hes just proud of where he is now
kmusic I was getting the same sense too. He's telling the CC kids to be proud of the school they're going to but I bet he wouldn't wanna tell anyone he's going to CC if he was going there himself based on his proud attitude. He worked harder for a status than just for an education.
 @kerenchoi6967  Yale probably only refined him by giving him a status. He feels more confident with himself by going to a prestigious school. In my opinion, that's the only thing yale refined: self esteem and confidence.
 @princejoy9053  u might be right but i dont disagree with keren
Prince Joy thats definitely something that happens at the ivys. But the way i like to look at it is that he spent all of high school trying to achieve this status and if thats what makes him more confident in who he is as a person, im all for it. But it could be dangerous and go to his head
 @kerenchoi6967  Second this. I can relate to Cory in a great deal. Being topper, ambitious, confident and high determined isn't a sin, but Saul's insight on humbleness & self respect is what can balance Cory's mindset. Saul sees that Cory is amazing, not because of his Yale admission, but all his immense courage & efforts to reach to the point where he is now. Since Saul is such education seeker (being a 85 yo!), he surely can relate to Cory & his passion.
Keren Choi  I suspect that later in life after he goes to Yale and when he’s in the workforce and everyone’s on the same playing field that he’ll have a new identity crisis.   Who will he be when he no longer goes to Yale? Will he just be the kid that went to Yale?
 @wendyberrios5957  well technically, at the moment, he's also on an even playing field. he's not just the kid who goes to yale because tons of other students attend yale too. if he gets the job he's proud of, maybe that'll be his new point of pride
Imagine the try-hard life that went into this.. you can achieve more through just being a hustler...
 @calv.io.n8080  being a hustler and getting into the Ivy League (or Ivy level school) is not mutually exclusive. People who are hustlers and went to an Ivy, become Bill Gates, Elon Musk, and Jeff Bezos... just to name a few.
 @calv.io.n8080  Bruh she went to my school. She was essentially a professional journalist as a teenager. She HUSTLED to get into those schools
 @Mooodyyhhh  That's not mutually exclusive? You can't deny that they hustled and worked their asses off to build some of the largest companies in the world. Also, Jeff Bezos was not a rich kid.
Jeff bezos never went to an ivy league neither musk before getting into stanford GRADUATE school which is easier than getting into undergrad. Stop lying to make a point
 @d.jmamba7237  What are you on? Jeff Bezos went to Princeton. Musk went to UPenn.
 @Mooodyyhhh  you cant just blame all success on being rich lmaooooo
 @Mooodyyhhh  unless you have a truly massive amount of money, everyone hustles to get into ivy schools. Even the insufferable private school kids with 250$ an hour tutors and 50k a year tuition work their asses off to get into the ivy league. It sure as hell is easier for them, but they still work their asses off
 @loulou-i7r  I thought Asians weren't acceptance rate wasn't up to par as much as black and white people because there are too many of them. Doesn't sound like Asian privilage to me.
 @jasminey9642  Bezos's parents bailed out Amazon when it was failing with  $250,000. $500,000 today adjusted for inflation. Not saying he he wouldn't have been successful otherwise, but his parents were very wealthy growing up.
yeah he looks a lot better than my grandmas husband whos like, 64 i think?
What type of 58 year old do you know 🤣... He looks younger than his age, but I wouldn't say he looks 60 😅 60 year old aren't that old
Agreed. I was actually surprised when they said he was 85. Thought he was in his 60s.
 @Thewoj2123  8 of the most prestigious schools in the nation, yeah who cares about that Edit: May I add that mostly accept the strongest students internationally, who are incredibly gifted in their academic passions to the point where they can win international or national competitions in the subject, or started an organization that impacted hundreds/thousands of people, or started a very successful business, yeah nothing much
We just did an episode where we briefly highlight an immigrant who was accepted to 3 ivy league schools: Columbia, UPenn, and Harvard. Like you said Gianna, muy impressive.
Yep, but think about the cost.  She started on third base to get that home run.  You have to have money just to apply.  Application costs are from about 50 to 100 per school.  She applied to 17 schools.
 @differnet  if you can’t afford it you get an application fee waver.
 @davidokoh869  To all 17?!  Unlikely.  But let's talk discount rates.  There are few full rides for academics.  Even the Ivy Leagues know that you can give two half scholarships to say a middle-class family rather than a full ride to a poor family.  I work at a well-known science and engineering university.  Our financial aid department has been instructed several times over the decades to lower our discount rate.  We give very few full rides.  Even our aid to those in the middle is lower as the value of the degree I'm science and engineering has climbed, because the students can afford more debt with a robotics or cyber security degree (biological sciences are screwed though).
 @differnet  heard. I just got into an ivy school where they claim to meet 100% of demonstrated need, but as a middle-class student I’m expected to pay the full price of their inflated tuition. School is expensive..
Living in Canada is easy. Just buy your house 35 years ago.
I came to Canada as a skilled immigrant (a mechanical engineer) from the Ukraine, because they said they needed my skills. My wife had a university degree too. The Engineers' society of BC put so many hoops to jump through to prove my degree that it was easier to go to the university the second time and get a local degree. With two teenage kids in the household it was not possible and I started my Canadian career as a car wash person, and a year later migrated to carpentry (my former hobby). I'm in carpentry 22 years later and about to retire. So much about skills.
I been speaking with people living outside of Canada, they are also amazed that we cant afford houses with all that land. We are not even 50 millions, there is no excuses. The corruption runs deep.
Next time when a politician starts talking about hope and change, ask him first what exactly he means.
I'm someone who was born in Canada, got higher education and was luckily very fortunate thanks to the hard work of my parents. I will never be able to afford a home in the city I've lived in my whole life. You do everything right, with every opportunity given to you, and it's still not enough in this country. I'm not entitled to anything, but the American/Canadian dream and path to get there does not work anymore.
6:30 there was never a shortage of workers. There was a shortage of workers willing to work sh**ty jobs with no benefits for minimum wage. So, the government saw immigrant, a pool of infinite, cheap, disposable, exploitable labour, as a solution. At the same time, the people advocating for this also benefitted from the housing crisis. The ever increasing demand for housing meant that the property value of the rich skyrocketed.
Thank you. Just what I needed to watch.  My wife and I own a few property, plus other income . I am nearly 52,  We have started to save to retire perfectly, and possibly live on rental income in Canada, I'd really appreciate you go LIVE and talk about how to earn passive income online and retire comfortably
It’s like if your parents had two kids who were always hungry, and before the needs of their children are met, they start adopting orphans. As the children, would you not be like, WTF, get your house in order before you invite more people in. I’m not sure why this is hard for western governments to understand.
More and more people might face a tough time in retirement. Low-paying jobs, inflation, and high rents make it hard to save. Now, middle-class Canadians find it tough to own a home too, leaving them without a place to retire.
I was hiring for 1 position for $28/hour with training provided. I ended up with 200+ applicants from India. Ended up hiring a kid out of high school instead. Real Canadians have been sold out by our government.
I migrated to Canada from Poland and used to live there through 1992- 2001; the unemployment rate at this time was -+ 10%. I could never make a decent living, and pretty much was just paying the bills month to month. I work as a taxi driver, pizza maker and finally an IT administrator after graduating from Toronto Humber Collage. I have come back to Poland back in 2002 and making my life standards are much higher then in Canada; can't imagine how people make living with today's prices? My Canadian Citizhenship is pretty much worthless :-(
How about this: instead of bringing new people into the country "with their talents, hopes and their dreams," we nourish the talent that we already have in Canada? Young people living in Canada don't stand a chance anymore; leaving has become the only option.
Guys I don't understand, they're crying worker shortage, but they don't have the ability to pay wages that can cover food.
It's insane that a nation that is so sparsely populated has such insanely high housing prices.  It makes no sense.
The housing crisis is horrifying. My city (London, Ontario) has an estimated 1935 people living homeless and 396 shelter beds. Tonight, it will feel like -30C with windchill.
In my country, I have a solid education, earn a good income, and am well-established. In 2006, I received an offer to immigrate to Canada and attended a government seminar. The first thing I noticed was that they only accepted highly educated individuals. I asked about carpenters, plumbers, bricklayers, and painters, and the response was that these professionals didn’t qualify for immigration. That was the moment I decided against immigrating. How can a country expect to build houses without the essential professionals who drive society forward? The best decision I made was to stay. My friends who did go regretted it. They couldn’t buy a house, still live in rentals, and ended up in remote areas where I would only spend weekends in my own country.  Some countries are like a big amusement park—great to visit, but living there is a different story.
I have never seen such a unified comment section before. Must be a testament to the nation's shared frustration.
There wasn't any issues with worker shortage.  We have a crisis of employers who want experienced workers to fill in 2-3 roles for a fraction of the cost and calls it Entry Level.
 @reuven2010  Pretty much the method of keeping people poor in the modern times. Lock away all your money in rent and mortgage and slave away.
Closer to 50 years these days. At least in some parts
Not that long ago. I bought a 1 bedroom condo 10 years ago. My mortgage + maintenance is half what my neighbor is paying for rent on the same unit design.
 @reuven2010  Yes, because the USD is the reserve currency and every bank in the world is downwind of the Federal Reserve.  Printing $8 Trillion dollars has consequences, especially when most of it doesn't go towards production/exportation.
Even 35 years ago it was not easy. More like 50 years ago...
even 15 years ago when my parents bought me my first home in Vancouver it wasn't too bad
2003 was a good time to buy . I know many people.  That made lots of money then.
It's not the same everywhere in the world. In Kansas and Missouri, US a single detached home can be purchased for 300k Cad.   Its likely you cannot get a 1 bedroom condo for under 400 in BC.
We love Saskatchewan. We bought our first house for $12000. In a small town.22 years agoWe bought an acreage 12 years ago for $50000. It’s quite out in the country but we have great neighbours and it’s like having a little park all to ourselves.
 @esparda07  Back To The Future 4:  Marty McFly uses the Doc's time machine to buy a house in 1985 and needs to get back to 2025.
That is what my sister and her husband did. They are 70 years old. They sold their house in Calgary for $600,000 and bought one in Edmonton for $300,000. It is perfect for them in their old age.  They bought their Calgary house for $209,000 23 years ago,.
In Italy it's the same, we've reached a point where if you're not a nuclear scientist you're never going to have enough money to rent a flat and live on your own.
Exactly. Just go back to the time when the government was actively competing with private developers and giving people who needed it housing for cheap. Huh, well there's a policy idea nobody seems to want to do in the modern day for some reason...
If I had have taken this advice when I was -3 years old then I would be set for life now but unfortunately unlike the other unborn and not yet conceived future children I was too busy wasting my life on meaningless stuff like not existing, I regret everything.
 @zxrcanada A mortgage is an excellent investment.  You’re investing, saving, and paying for your home all at the same time.  In 25 to 35;years depending, your home will be paid for and you will be very well positioned.  My very very best advice.❤️
​ @frostflower5555  35 years ago I could have bought 1 house myself and afford a 2nd mortgage if I had a partner.
I think it is not difficult for Indians to live in Canada
i feel sorry for every person who has to go through this
Yes, you are correct, my parents bought a 4 bedroom house in Lewishom UK for 3,500 pounds, the price now is 650 000 pounds sterling.
I bought my house in 2018 and doubled my money on it in 2022. Moved to Newfoundland and now mortgage free at 33
Yea, so you can sell it now and retire in a country that doesn't suck
We bought our house in 2002. It cost $175K. Now, the most recent appraisal for property tax purposes says it’s worth $750K. It’s crazy. But we are mortgage free!  Gen X 😅
Which is ridiculous. It has to be due to nonsensical government regulations that stop home building in Canada. It's not like you have a shortage of land.
 @eleanorsnyder3919  yep, even now there are houses for 50k in rural areas, cold & remote tho.
Ya bro i can’t figure out how to get the 80k a year mark
I know several 30 year olds buying homes. They work and save their money.  Oh well if you live in the capital of energy and resources bring the highest unemployment in Canada. Alberta is ruled by fiscal conservatives.  Lol no jobs cons!
I should have bought a house when I was in my mama belly
 @beerasaurus  those who did are now blaming those who can't even afford rent
or rent and don't move, still 1400 a month is missisauga for a 1 bedroom
Dad bought way back and he needed family help at that time too.
Bought my first home in 92, mow i'm mortgage free, making investments, multiple pensions. biggest pension in from DND after along career in the Navy. Can't say it was easy though. I worked for 42 years.
 @catsup27  Gen x is old lol. Many are in their late 50s. Young people are screwed
​@aynrandfan7454 omg keywords here: "when my parents bought..." No one average person can do it on their own anymore.
@ that is usually the way, young people work, save for their dreams, meet a mate/roommate, buy a house and share, start a family, if that is your thing. It takes a community. It was never easy to make a lifetime purchase. I am a senior now and last large purchase was a brand new vehicle a year before retirement. I cannot afford to buy new on pension but I have a old vehicle like new, and a moderate home. Now I am going to stock up on food In case prices rise even more as Conservative business owners jack prices and blame the Government.
Canada is the biggest rip off I’ve ever seen…we bought in about 15 years ago and it was $$$, but we put every cent on the house and paid it off in a few years, it sucks, it took a toll on our health but I knew that when Justin was running in 2015, I knew it was going to be a nightmare…place sucks, if I could go to America, I would….
House prices doubled in 4 years in NB you could have bought in just 4-5 years ago and been fine here. T.T
10 years was enough. My mom was able to afford 2 properties with her salary which is close to the average in Canada. I am so lucky I have a condo in downtown Toronto as a result and my mom has her own house. The mortgages are high but I will never understand the struggle of those who did not buy a property before. I am so grateful for my situation.
Canadian mentality is insane. Everyone who bought a place a decade ago when it was affordable is patting themselves on the back at the market getting out of control.     It isn't normal or healthy to "double your value." In such a short time. And while Canadians use homes as retirement plans, anyone under 25 will likely never have one.  The system stopped sustaining itself and there is now  no entry point for the youth.
Imagine how much it will cost you in permanent repairs due to poor quality of construction. Then landscaping, property tax, mortgage payments. In 35 years! Then sell it for $1.5 mln and where will you go? Apartment rental for $3000 a month? Or seniors' home? Great plan!
My dad's house cost him $20k in the 1960s.  His salary when he bought it was $19k per year.
 @Nova6432  Why didn't you pull yourself up by your pre-fetal bootstraps? I remember slaving away all summer at the car wash to save up to buy my 5 bedroom, 3 bathroom home for $18,000 back in 1983.
​ @VisiblyPinkUnicorn     and that's why also the population numbers are drawing back, I think.................😂
LOLOLOLOLOLL! And I thought living and suffering paying rent for $1800/month here in Kalifornia was horrible.
No shit. I'm holding tight on my last 3 properties and primary home. I feel really bad to the current and newer generation. I got where i am from just working shitty dirty job nobody wanted to do. but you can't do that anymore. Everything is saturated, overpopulated and sky high expensive.
While that makes the 'shelter' portion easy, it certainly doesn't for a second help the food issues
My children are  all in their early 30's and just bought houses with their own hard-earned money. They also worked to put themselves through university. So what's the problem? Laziness?
You have to question WHO is making money off our backs? WHO is raking in the money from all those properties. Are they eating peanut butter sandwiches?
 @frostflower5555  Corporations, immigrants with money and a head for business, older Canadians who invested their life savings while continuing to work into their 70's. the only people that I begrudge are the numbered corporations that could easily be foreign owned, who waltzed right in and bought all thge apartment buildings, kicked everyone out, did a minimum of redecorating, bought new appliances and then doubled the rent. There are no laws against this, no controls. Why you ask? Because every Conservative government removed rent controls and renter's rights in favor of corporate donations to get elected. Ford in Ontario did this. He also froze health care worker wages during Covid and the in the highest inflation in Canada's history. Now, go ahead and vote Conservative again and see what happens. There is more damage they  can do from a national level. You'd be surprised.
100% if you did not get a condo in 2013-2016 in GTA, Toronto, forget about that, at least for years... I feel so disappointed with my immigration to Canada, but too late to move somewhere or get back  home, lots of people are in the same situation. I feel like they need us to maintain the system. You come here, you spend all your money and you keep paying a lot of money, and ...we are so far from beautiful european countries ( sorry guys that my personnal preferences and it vary from one pers to another one)  to visit. I got used to travail but now, forget about that with our average  incomes.  Hopefully Pierre Poilievre and his gov will be able to address that properly.
Buddy even 9 years ago houses were reasonable. I bought a 4 bedroom detached house in mississauga in 2015 for $500K
@C_AVATAR  I pay 1900 dollars of rent for a bedroom in Canada 😭
Couldn’t afford a Time Machine so I bought one 35 years prior to 2059. Not looking good so far.
I am now 53, I was able to purchase a condo, my first home, 12 years ago because of a First-Time Home Buyers Federal program that the Liberals have now shut down. I bought a new-build, 780 square-foot 2 bedroom condo for $179,000. The program paid my 5% down-payment (about $9,000) with myself giving $2,000 (to prove I could pay, I guess?). I am now 6 years from having the mortgage paid off. WHY did the Libs shut this program down?!? I have talked to many younger people who absolutely cannot afford to buy any home, and rents are obscene!
 @artyomnuzhdin8711  Toronto has always been overpriced. Here's a suggestion... don't live there. It's a dirty crime ridden city anyway. I lived there for 14 years and moved away 33 years ago. It was bad then. Now the population has doubled and so has crime and prices double every 15 years anyway. What you should be complaining about is why your wages haven't kept up with inflation. The copout lazy response is to blame Trudeau. Sure do that, and things will NEVER change.  (BTW I'm 70, and it's a load of carp to say that it was easier to buy a house when I was 30.)
let me get in my delorian and scoot back to 1972
 @checkfactschecking  That's why I said it was happening for a long long time and nobody (govt) was doing anything. I actually traced a few apartment building owners and yes, some are in another country...
 @stevenlake5278  I bought my bungalow in Montreal back in 2003. It tripled in value since then. If I had to buy it today , I couldn't afford it.
 @reuven2010  Thank you!  That's exactly the point that the vast majority are missing!
 @frostflower5555  Geography has a lot to do with it. in 1980, new home on east coast was 35k, in ontario, 235k interest rate 22% minimum wage 3.50 ph
Living in Canada is easy if people get out from Ontario and Quebec.
What people really need to do is think smart and simplify their lives. Consider building a tiny home—it’s all you truly need. Pair it with solar panels/dry cell batteries and a well for water, and you can cut out the burden of utilities entirely. Your only recurring expenses would be property taxes and your cell phone or internet bill. The reality is that far too many people live beyond their means, chasing lifestyles they can’t sustain, instead of focusing on what’s essential and manageable.  Just think you could own your house outright for the cost of the down payment today 🤷
​ @NaturalGC location location location aways depends where it is BC has always been expensive
Actually if you have bought your home in mid 2000 then you are set !
Exactly ! I emigrated in 2005 to Toronto and I can buy a house for 250 K a condo in fashion district for 200k! Godd times then .. btw same condo is like 800k now! It’s delusional !
 @marsk96  "Living in Canada is impossible"......as millions and millions of us live here just fine.
Okay, this needs a lot more elaboration.  Back in the day, you'd get a $10k RSP loan, your spouse would get the same,  tax refunds would pay half that loan balance in 60 days, you'd pay the rest within a year.  At the end of the year, repeat. End of 2nd year, you have $40K in an RSP, and that was enough of a downpayment on almost any property up to the 2010s.   Keep in mind that back then, there was no stress test. Having a combined income of $100k was enough qualify for a $500k mortgage, which would have bought a 4bedroom in just about anywhere in Canada.  Between cost of living and skyrocketing  housing prices, that trick to getting on the housing ladder no longer works.
Even if you did buy years ago the upkeep will delete your savings.
 @tommyshanks4198  Know what else needs elaboration?  "Why is it so bad"  The housing market took it's first step toward where it is right now in the late 1970's!  The standard CPC "Must be Trudeau's fault" really does NOT cut it - unless the "Trudeau" they're talking about is Pierre!
But for that I need to find Doc Emmett Brown and Marty McFly. And the DeLorean !
U R somewhat confused and avoid hard facts and focus on housing costs and food prices (due to Quebec lobbies in their marketing boards like for dairy and eggs and pork).  These are contemporary irritants but ur analysis is sooo lacking when it comes to demographics.  50% of Canadians including turdo's stronghold n quebec have given the courts the ultimate power to enforce marital and common in law rules that after 3 years fof a conjugal relationship U now have the obligation to support ur spouse at 50% of ur salary and 50% ++ of your assets.  Who in Canada except those extended families with a different cultural make-up want to produce children/progeny with such a financial burden as a noose around their neck and suicidal rates about 30% for  Cdn. men between 35-50%.  U lose almost everything if ur spouse takes you to Family Court.  Wake up "Hindsight" and report the realities on the ground not ur sycophant's narrative like sean fraser (a newfie where few want to go to from say India).  Look at the discrepancies in young female vs. male voters on Nov. 6.  Same applies to the colony called canada.
its unrealized gains though, unrealized gains are useless, oh yeah, taking on debt against your equity is the new trend, lol....
spayce without änd but yet nö (övvn) höme xP  ´FeinD $€ Flävv??  nö centureese agö Fhörrcett naziönce kvtt dvh id v v
 @aynrandfan7454  Wow, parents bought you a house, must be nice, not many can, but too many are, which is what has caused the Vancouver bubble.     Housing in Vancouver is so unaffordable for anyone but the rich nowadays.
@ life is not equal look at Elon musk …dont expect equality in life from anyone or anything especially government
In 1990 the rent on a 1 bedroom was $600 per month and homes were selling for $60,000.  In 2024, a 1 bedroom rent price is $2,356 per month, and homes are selling for $3 million.
I purchased my house 40 years ago. Paid it off more than 20 years ago.  Best financial decision I ever made.
This still works. You can buy a house now. Create new laws to prevent building new houses because of environmental issues and laws to add 2 millions immigrants a year.
"Just get a better paying job."  That's what an analyst said while interviewed on CBC Radio.
most - well so it seems - see a house like an ABM machine and refinance constantly to maximize debt and immediate pleasure.
Sorry. But no. Not even 35 years ago. I couldn't afford to buy a house in the 1980s even though I had a middle class salary.
Greetings from Germany. Its the same here. Most peopl spend more than 35% of their income on rent. Food, energy increase as well. If your parents arent home owners in a city with over 100k citizens (We are 83 Million overall) forget moving there as a young person. 1 room in Berlin, Munich, Heidelberg, Hamburg, Cologne is oftentimes above 600-700 Euros. As a student your income will be around 1.3k, if you work part time. After energy costs (around 200), food (300 p.p. - if you buy in cheap supermarkets, discount only), mobile phone / internet / gym bills (around 100 maybe) you barely get through the month. You didnt go out with friends, you havent paid any kind of bills from your university to that moment... A lot of people go into debt now for their degrees, which is a very very uncommon thing in Germany.   Being a young person right now feels like joining a monopoly game in the 20th round where nothing is left for you, but each round you are gonna pay someone for something you dont even really want, but its mandatory.
Or outside of major metropolitan areas. Still pretty affordable to live in more rural areas, like the east coast, or northern Ontario. There are thousands of listings across Canada for 3+ bedroom homes under $250K. And if you're making minimum wage, there are minimum wage jobs in those places, just like everywhere else.
Just buy ten houses 30 years ago, they were 100k each  for a decent sized big home, now it's 650k for a decent sized home where I live in Canada which is insane
I bought mine in 2013, 2017 and 2023. All paid off.
Same thing in the US, except also don't ever get sick and don't go to college but still get a job requiring a college degree.
Well, somebody’s doing it , everywhere I go there’s tons  of new subdivisions being built and a lot of very expensive housing going up  and condos, I’m sure there’s lots of people that can’t afford it , but there’s obviously a ton of people who can.
 @homerthompson416  would you like fries with that? If you dont have a college diploma, or higher education, get use to asking that question, or similar.  You dont just walk into a job that requires a college diploma, it takes many years of that trade before you get the recognition.  There are many high paying jobs that dont require a college diploma or a university degree, but it take many years to qualify for those jobs. You dont just walk into a job interview and say, Hi, I have no formal education that meets your qualifications, I did work at McDonalds, I would like to work for your company and get paid high wages.
 @zzzubmno2755  Way to miss the point about college being insanely expensive in the US. I'm fortunate I was born early enough that getting my degree wasn't the boot in the ass it has been for the last ~15-20 years or so. I do think it's stupid you have to pay upfront for the right to work in the US but the nation is all about subsidizing big business.
Its  a systemic / structural issue. Tax on assets and lower taxes on wages is the ONLY solution.
I built mine during lockdown and we are quite comfortable here in Atlantic Canada (financially the poorest part of this country). People’s piss poor spending habits are the reason why so many Canadians have financial problems.
 @frostflower5555  not easy but very possible. even low income families back then could buy a house.
 @alvindueck2104  Nope. I bought in 2000 and Vancouver was still possible
And have the young workers pay 40% income tax to pay for your healthcare and pension.
 @zxrcanada People have options with their money, simply stop paying these asking prices hold out and see how long they keep them high. Not long.
 @NaturalGC it's actually pretty typical for real estate to double every ten years in Canada. It more than doubles sometimes.  My parents bought their first house just outside TO in 1974 for 38K and sold it in 1985 for 160K. They moved to MB and bought a house in 1992 for 98K and sold it for 380 in 2020.  The problem is that wages don’t keep up with housing prices.
 @esthervermeer  I started buying investment properties in 2005. I'm not saying it is atypical. I'm just saying it isn't sustainable, nor is it synonymous with a healthy country.
 @alexanderdeclercq982  You can't say it was easy, even though it was 1,000x easier than for the current generation. Wake up.
Or buy a $1000 worth of bitcoin  25 years ago.
 @beerasaurus  you were so rich to buy instead of building it with own hands? My father had to start building a house with making a machine to make concrete because it was not possible to buy any.
Time travel may become an option. But I would suggest voting the tyrants out, replacing them with levelheaded conservatives who will slash prices, start great  ways of using natural resources, including timber., and educating the populace.  The common people need to educate themselves into becoming uncommon and this includes ending all addictions and becoming healthy.
Living in Canada is easy. Move out of the big ass city and it’s extremely affordable
@ I got started in 2000, and my kids will be diving in shortly. It might not be sustainable. In fact infinite economic growth likely isn’t either, but here we are. Everyone's convinced if the economy dips, the government did a bad thing, so they keep us happy. And houses keep doubling in pace with the economy.  But again, it wouldn’t be an issue if wealthy corporate owners would pay people properly. Instead CEOs have gone from making 20x the wage wages of their labour force to 320x, and thanks to inflation, the average person is poorer than they were thirty years ago.
Yep, I am super lucky. Will use house  I bought 30 yrs ago to live off when I move to Sr. Living.
Only for my parents brought their house years ago id be on the street lol Newfoundland prices are INSANE
35 years ago the mortgage rate was 12.75%,  and the median Canadian wage for an unattached individual was $25, 192.   "At its peak, the average cost for a home was $273,698 in 1989, compared to $102,318 just five years previously in 1984, creating a crisis of affordability. The Bank of Canada (BOC) strived to correct this course in 1988 by enacting a monetary policy to address inflation."   So... things weren't so rosy in 1989 either. Then in the early 1990's we had a recession - also not a rosy time.  If you could take your current earnings and jump in a time machine back to a time when we had 1980 house prices and 2012 interest rates with 2024 wages, housing would be super-affordable.
😂😂THATS NO  MAKE SENSE IT WAS SPENCIVE THEM, YOUR PARENTS WORK THEIR F.A ,TO PUT A ROOF ON YOUR HEAD  THE INFLATION IS PROPORTIONAL TO THEIRS INCOME BACK ON THE DAYS
People who run AirBnB / short term rental (STR) some own literally 100 homes. The point of a bed and breakfast was to be there, live there, not disrupt the housing market. Blame municipal governments for dropping the ball on that, then provincial governments, then federal, also blame anyone who uses STRs or the leeches who own STRs.
i bought my house 9 years ago, now almost fully paid. feels good.
i live in canada and the only thing that bothers me is the cold winter and some of the silly laws.  i'm disabled with chronic arthritis and on disability.
You're dead on. I realized some time ago I could afford to buy the house I grew up in... if I got the price my parents paid for it in 1993.
I just bought a very nice 2 storey house on 2 wooded acres of land, 5 minutes away from town. I paid $180,000 Canadian. I don't know what people are complaining about
 @ambeegaming76  I just bought a nice house in NB. 2 storey, 2 acres, 5 minutes from town. Not a fixer upper. $180,000. You just have to keep looking
 @reuven2010  not really the houses in America are still 2x-3x cheaper than Canada
 @alvindueck2104  I agree. But even so  it's a good investment to give the next generation a bit of a better chance to get ahead in the world.  Stay in school and educate yourself in what top paying employment you'll also enjoy. One that you can't be fired from.
Yup. I did. But I can't afford repairs. =( I'm no further ahead than you. It's an albatross around my neck.
Don't worry just hang in there, houses will be much cheaper in 35 years.
 @checkfactschecking  Toronto / GTA was affordable, 10-11 years ago. I regret I did not take a mrtgage  in 2017 for one debroom condo in Scarborough east, for 240K. now in 2023 I had no choice but leave Toronto. I am bilingual I am ok. but it s sad. people cannot afford housing. Too expensive. In Montreal with 55K now I feel more comfortable financially, and have my reasonable mortgage,than with 62K in Toronto.  and unfortunately there are a lot of in Toronto with 45-55K, lots of people leave with roommates. That s too bad. Yes you had probably mortgage at 15-16%, prices wrer not the same, nor salaries but  income vs 1m2 price was better. My collegues told that. I can compare only with 2013 ...the year I landded in in Canada as PR. Now I am dissapointed but to late to get back to EU. Lets see and lets hope that Pierre poilievre will change things,. I do hope.
 @Tracey66  lol...come one. if you re in BC or ON, just to to QC, or Canadian Maritimes.  x4 less expensive 1m2
 @beerasaurus  right on or even the early 80's when mortgage rates were 18 per cent .  It's all relative my friend.
 @Sirithil  As I said, New Brunswick. Acadian Peninsula. Town has medical centre, supermarket, Home Hardware, BMR, 6 restaurants, 4 car repair shops, pet hospital, Shoppers Drug, plumber and electrician, fire and police, and a fish processing plant if you need a job. My total fixed housing cost, including mortgage, property tax, insurance, energy, snow plowing and grass cutting is $1700 per month
​ @ThorOdinssohn well just so you know. Steven Harper was in charge then and he ain't no liberal.
​ @mikeb2586 Pierre Trudeau had a huge building boom lots of low income homes built right in my neigborhood. My momstill lives in one.
​ @Oxazepam65 if they are paying 40 percent they are making darn good money. The base rates have been lowered and the amount of taxes you pay is determined by what you earn.
​ @sebastianchmielewski6281 when the immigrants moved here after the war because we needed skilled labour. They often built their own homes and then their children's homes. They were good quality homes.
I bought my condo 35 years ago and I always say “Thank God” if I had to pay rent now we wouldn’t be able to even pay for food, I feel really bad for young people. I don’t know how they manage. It just isn’t right.
Same reply that idiots use to ignore the governments policy that is a direct cause of a high cost of living.  Federal and provincial policies has made this country unaffordable
 @vladimirofsvalbard9477  Well this comment is going to age apocalyptically over the next 4 years
 @cherylcharrette8209  You're right, he did.  He's no more to blame than Justin is.  The clowns whining about inflation wouldn't have lasted back then either - inflation in the 80's was double digits for YEARS..............AND.........mortgage rates went as high as 20% and that's without a pandemic!  Damned wimps.
 @cherylcharrette8209  skill is the issue here, doesn't matter if you are immigrant or native: white collars don't build houses
​ @checkfactschecking not all hard working 20 or 30 some odd people, can still purchase homes. Semis in my area are close to 1M, and rents are 2K+ per month. My daughter is in the trades, and has built homes and one of the people her age in the trades own homes, the ones who live on their own, can't save towards a down payment even. They all work hard for their money.
 @reuven2010 we pretty chill here in Vietnam making our $200 a month and keep 40% of that. And the government don’t try to tax everyone to death 😅😅 but still we are third world country and people are leaving for Canada
​ @RenateDeBruyn  perfect advice, except some people can not get approved for a mortgage
​ @CoupleDrinks and that's exactly why many can not get into the market. They simply don't earn enough to get a mortgage
@ no doubt. If I didn’t buy back then I wouldn’t have ever owned. Definitely a bit lucky
You could still get a decent house for 280k in 2005 when I graduated. Now it’s 700k for a small condo
I bought my house 7yrs ago, just before the huge spike. The house literally tripled in value in 5yrs. Madness. That was the defining moment in the craziness.  The best place for people to buy a house is St John NB. You can get a nice home in a nice city for a really affordable price. There are obviously challenges but you would own your own house.
My parents did exactly that. Otherwise, we can't afford to live in Van.
 @snowwhite2709  It was the same 40 years ago when I was in my 30's  So tell me why you think it's worse today. If you cop out and just say "it's Trudeau's fault" then you don't want answers and solutions. This is a worldwide problem caused by worldwide events. I guess you know already builders are having a hard time and some are going bankrupt, or have already. So why is that? Do some research and get back to me. If the answers don't fit your narrative, in my experience on YT,  you probably won't reply.
35 years ago or 50 years ago I could not afford to buy a house. Did not have a cell bill and gas was cheap in 1975 I made 750$ a month, in 1985 I made 1600$ a month. Retired I make over 3000$ a month. This biggest mistake Canada did but it also helped the economy and brought investments into Canada was wealthy people could buy their way in. In 1978 you could buy a house for about 80,000$ in 1980 it went to 180,000$ and kept increasing at an incredible rate many 80,000$ houses where now 1 million.   The major cause was the world crash do to oil in the late 70’s thank OPEC. The main cause was mainly Hong Kong residents emigrating to Canada and buying real estate to get Canadian citizenship because of Hong Kong going to China. The economy boomed but so did real estate and many Vancouver citizens became millionaires. The government changed the laws recently.
How dare you be born 55 years late, shame on you.
not true the cost of owing property has soared. Taxes upon taxes, rising utilities, rising repair costs to the point where living is out of reach for everyone one including property owners
I Did...and Now my Mortgage is Gone, and My house is now worth...about 1 Million!!!   SUCKS, Don't It!!??   :)
1975 Anti Inflation Act, but "Canadians" keep voting for  trudeau 🤣
 @Roman-Bellum-et-Pax  Same here, it was hard owning a house in the 80’s people have no idea how high the interest rates where then, when the interest rates went crazy many people house was worth less than the mortgage. 18% interest it took almost 3 weeks to pay the mortgage bought it for 90,000 now it’s worth 600,000 and it’s paid off. It was hard but the best thing I did
 @reuven2010  not that even to top quater earners can't buy a house it ain't.. i thought my country had a problem, now i'm not so sure any more :). great for those who own of course.. easy more money.. wtf +25% 2 years in a row?
 @rogerbrassard   Bravo!!!.....and Yes, the interest rates were brutal in the Early 90's,  and I fixed my Old Car(s), rarely ate in Restaurants, and I only purchased the household items I truly needed.....until my Mortgage was GONE!. Now I have, extra CASH for Hobbies and Travel. It was appraised at 950K about 6 months ago.....and now I have someone knocking at my door almost weekly asking if I WANT to sell it?.  I Was offered 920K(in my bank within 72 hours).....without even a "Walk-thru"!!!.   :)
It’s all about the government can’t control the price & fuck everything
Our generation is having rough around the world, not just in Canada.
Or be lucky enough to have rented in an apartment at least around ten years ago in Ontario before all this rent hike madness started to spiral out of control as in Ontario renters are protected from extreme rent hikes with a rent increase cap of around 2.5 percent per year. If I was to move out of my now 757 a month bachelor pad, whoever moved in would have to pay around 1700 a month. I do not own a vehicle and if for whatever reason I was kicked out I would have no choice but to move in with my parents. Things are truly out of control and I feel sorry for anyone who started out now or a little while ago. But, it could be worse, I mean, look at the average bachelor pad in New York, a whopping 3700 a month, and that is in US dollars to add an even more nasty sting to that price tag. Then you have areas in England where from my understanding it is around 8000 pounds a month for the average home rental. How are most people who are starting out supposed to get by anymore, most especially if they have a family?
Are you insane? Do you have any idea how much time travel costs nowadays??
I don't think so. You should see new coming renters! They will destroy your property🤡
 @quixomega  its true. my moms entire house is about 600 per month + utilities. She pays almost half the going rent of a 1 bedroom apartment, but gets all the perks of a full home, outside patio, garage, etc. She bought the house about 15 years ago.
If that's what a voter believe, that explained why we have big problems. How many elder forced to let go their property after retired? Even if I give you a house as gift, can you afford all the cost? including climbing property tax(increasing every year),  gas(which increased over 60% in one year after 2019), for your income, how long can you hold it? How about after you retired?  We tend to blame it to real-estate,  new immigrants, etc.... But as an Canadian if we can not see the systematic failure behind it, we are doomed.
If I did not buy mine 20 years ago I would still be living in my old sailboat. Living on a military pension now and it's pretty tight.
Same with America, the house I grew in up valued at $120,000 35 years ago just sold for $775,000
 @quixomega  Yep there is 40 millions people in canada and I feel like they based their opinion on the 2 highest priced city in the whole country. Not quite representative IMO.
 @spurgear4   - I'm living abroad. It's hard hearing my mom be disappointed in me, but I don't think she understands how in 1980, a year's salary (for someone with just a high school education no less) could buy a good starter home, while now a year's salary gets you nowhere.
i don't know how immigration has any connections to inflation.  i don't think immigration affects price of broccoli. Housing crisis is a totally separate issue. this is created by too much freedom in real estate handlings and no inheritance tax in Canada. Canada should adopt 1/3 of annual national average income as the base to cap annual rents to charge. rental property should not be a tool for investment but needs for society. Supply/Demand mechanism shouldn't introduce in basic economics, esp., place to live, foods to eat, and cloths to wear.
 @strafniki1080  well the first emigrated cleared land died of disease you worked or died
 @bonniedrouillard3963  know my nephew living on streets it seems there not much work unless you have a degree
My dad bought an entire 20 acre peninsula in 1988 on a Muskoka Lake for 18K and built a small cottage on it. His friends thought he was insane. Sold it recently for millions.
I have lived in a van for 5 years because of housing costs and each year I see more and more people living out of their cars. At least my van is renovated for living, but Im  taking about people sleeping in the backseat of their cars. It is ridiculous.
Or better yet, just move to Europe and forget this country.
👑 Very very great channel! Thank you so much! Best wishes from Hungary
 @marsk96  well you should forget British Columbia too. B.C. stands for BRING CASH!
Just look around. Nelson, BC the single detached homes are 800k. You can find homes in Colorado for half that.   Canada has made alot of mistakes. It falls on all 3 levels of government. Lack of supply, unchecked immigration, rising building costs and a myriad of other factors.  It may take decades to climb out of this hole. Meanwhile an entire generation is caught with inflated home prices and pressed into 1 bed condos.  And those sitting on 1.8mil homes, you're all trapped. Either you go small town, or die in your 4 bedroom casket.
But you only own your house as long as you pay your taxes. My taxes(downtown Toronto) is $40,000 per year.
Even if you own your home ......taxes and cost continue to rise!!  How much is fuel, food, repairs, replacement appliances,  crazy 🤪 expensive!!
Actually about 7 or 8 yrs ago. That’s when the housing market started to inflate.   Prices started to inflate quickly back and really took off during the ‘plandemic’.
Summer ok resort areas drop 50 % in wintee. Yeh take flights tp Panama etc.  Lol.  Yeh if u had a " Gov" job have good pension. ( farmers went broke from Gov Ag poloicies - but Gov got pensions. Lol) yeh life ups and downs. Lots already down ( like buried lol)   star jockey players too.   Still " trying"  latest project Ag prod mushroms / greenhouse. ( need trucks / sea cans. Use trucks as "tow trucks too"  Had own semi. ( made own fuel cond. Lol) Have "emergency traction units ( good for tow truck biz ) Son with CPKC. ( lots of safety issues etc )  yeh "steel wheel on steel rail" ( NOT good emergency braking. )   Uncles ( grand father like- mfg/ design equip and in politics too )  Mother / grandmother from Soviet block / Stalin etc.  Lots of "HIS"tory.  Still trying.  But every hard.  Credit rating system unforgiving. ( better in US  for biz - investors etc Musk grandfather Sk farmer . Ywh Cdn eventually learn maybe. Take mfg on NY exchange lol. Or UK.  Not TSX 1 403 830 4124
Or be . Indian black disabled gaya woman or the other Indian . Then life's easy
​ @reuven2010 not even close..my son just bought his first house in Michigan for 120k and the state gave him 5k and the city gave him 10k for a down payment..he pays 900/ mth including his mortgage, taxes and insurance. that's ontario from 25yrs ago
​ @frostflower5555  what are you talking about.. I bought a 3 bedroom sidesplit on a good size lot in london ont for 165k 20 yrs ago and now it's worth 700k
​ @RenateDeBruyn the problem now is kids can't even get started on a mortgage like we did 20 yrs ago because even dump houses in the east end of town start at 500k..when the used to be 70k
​ @marcfavell a tiny home here in ontario is minimum 500k  so that's 2500 a mth before taxes  insurance, and everything else..same house in Michigan 120k..something is wrong here
​ @lowflyingpigeons2170  how do you figure..bought in 2003 for 165k now worth 700k, put a roof on the house as most major expense for 6k..so the investment has been amazing.
​ @mikeb2586 you oviously don't own a home or you would realize...I've had my house for 20yrs, bought it for 165  the first 10yrs it went up to 220k...the next 10 it went up to 700k..im not complaining..but I wouldn't want to buy it now
​ @darrin2053 it is like where..not in ontario for sure. maybe nova scotia where there's no jobs
 @keizomatsuzaki  - Yep. It's people who bought multiple properties in the 80s when things were cheap relative to salaries, as well as investment firms buying up everything.
You need to ask WHY the prices have increased so much.
 @tomasvicente3217 The rent should NOT be so high - WHY is it so high ?
 @NaturalGC  It's true. But what's the point of having Cities if everyone who works to keep the city running does not benefit? Why does a worker in a City have to bleed to the soul in order to get by just because it's in the "City"?
​ @amandagrant4331 Many are taxi drivers, I had one on my last visit, complaining he can't afford anything and has to work night shift.
 @johhnyo  I do, actually, own a home and I'm fully aware of housing prices.  I'm not suggesting for one moment that housing is "affordable" in most of the country - I'm just calling B.S. on most people's reasons why and solutions.
I remember looking for a house in 2005 and listened to people telling me not to because the prices would come down. Then they started jumping 50k a year so I bought one in 2009.
 @NaturalGC . Yeah, but you have to live in Kansas or Missouri!  🤮🤮🤮
@ Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba. There is more Canada West of you.
Every time I hear "canadian dollar", I can only think of "silly" version of the dollar
 @snowsnow4231 this is the exact opposite of capitalism. Rentiers are non productive members of Soviet and Adam Smith the father of capitalism argued that rentier incomes should be taxed
If buying to live great, but if buying for investment best watch out. Japan's market crashed and will never go back to their highs ever again. They are a good benchmark for what will happen to most western indebted nations very soon.  Move to a country that has a growing young population and is beginning their development and you will be where your parents were back in the early buying phase for property.
​ @frostflower5555 : it was never " easy" but now it is impossible
 @peterclarke3020  - Supply and demand. They are deliberately keeping supply low. They could deregulate and build lots more houses, but are profitting from things how they are.
 @peterclarke3020  Because of speculation by real estate agents and companies; because the government stopped incentivising building new homes, and instead makes it super bureocratic and inefficient, and because some people don't want to expand urban space because it devalues their properties, (it doesn't matter if you never sell your home), which is a really selfish mindset because they're compromising the long term livability of cities
There's a new tax for ""boomers"" who've owned homes for 30 years, don't worry ;)
apartment is 750sf and she pays $4,300 a month WHAT my home is 3,300sf with 3 acres of land i pay $1,000 a month in the United States
​ @catsup27 Similar situation here. Kids education fund all sorted, too. Mind you, my pick up is 17yrs old and I'd like it to last a few more years lol
​ @johannjohann6523 A lot can be put down to gouging, too. Linear price of lumber is at an all time low, yet a 2x4 is still way over priced. Most of the main building materials are. Electrical cable is double what it was three years ago, for example. There had always beena demand for skilled, reliable trades people. Yet the unemployment rate continues to climb. The people running th3 country are simpky unqualified for the job. A part time drama teacher for PM? Seriously? The terrifying thing is, people will vote for him again!
According to the chart at 0:58 it seems like the solution is to just move to Edmonton.
who else is watching this from 35 years ago ?                         . . .  and laughing their leg-warmers off !
Just retired and bought a house with a massive yard for 80,000 dollars, the catch is its in a place no one wants to live. But I like it.
Until your a senior and you saved all your life just to loose it all to taxes.
It was literally 20000$ to buy a house in Québec in the 80's
We are not proud of your immigration policy. People cannot find places to rent! Six students living in a small 3 bedroom bowngalow with an unfinished basement!
Lol reminds me of those billboards: 'Have you tried finding richer parents?'
I got mine in 2021 for $75 000 at a 10% down payment, 1% interest for 10 years. Its a small two bedroom 1 bath at an entire 666 square feet (hail satan). I was homeless in 2016. I am very lucky. Wait for the market to crash, and dont live beyond your income.
 @eleanorsnyder3919 Yes Saskatchewan is a bargain!   The temperatures are VERY 🥶 cold in the winter …which is a downside, in my opinion
 @christinewarnaar-bates3494  Yep. All the boomers I know are stuck where they are. They can't go to the coast, they can't move to the Vancouver Islands. Their exit plan is to head to Alberta or Saskatchewan with a million dollars in the bank.  They can't upsize because their income/pension can't support any increase in payments.  While they are still self congratulting,  that they bought a home for 150k in 1989, they are stuck heading to small towns or to colder climates.  It's either that or swap to a tiny condo and stay in the city.
Also hope that they dont geoengineer your town and burn or flood you out,research....
Blame greedy realtors allowing blind bidding, house flippers buying cheap houses, grocery chains and oil companies making billions in annual profits. My Canada is not perfect but it’s way better than many many countries.
I bought my house in 92 for 180k, it’s now worth 900k. I’m in a town 35 miles from Toronto, self employed and have had a very good life.
 @quixomega  Exactly. When the housing market crashed homes were cheap. In 2011 I was able to purchase my home. It has tripled in value. Then during Covid I got dirt cheap financing. I will never leave. My 2 Mercedes are paid off. Right place in right time. I am very thankful.
I got an affordable house in 2021. But the almighty youtube algorithm HATES me telling the truth, so plz delete this too daddy algorithm! ;) i get off to it
Just so yall aware maybe Trump in America "May" change things a bit but the cost of living will never seem to be decreased but raised every single damn year so we as individuals on a daily basis have to think outside the box to find a career that keeps up with expenses of this world. I'm 27 but as far as I've seen when i hit my 30's I can't even imagine as a CDL trucker that career won't be enough.
The problem there is not only about the lack of housing, but about people thinking their house is the investment that's going to pay for your pension. As long as governments will dismantle pension by repartition to move to a capitalization system, the housing market will increase like crazy.
Or buy it in Alberta, or Saskatchewan, or Manitoba, or the whole east coast
Not even that long ago.  I bought my first 1,100 sqft bungalow in 2001...for $86,500.  By 2008 it was worth $250K.
Just buy your house 35 years ago seems to be the same story in every Country that has a two party system and uses neoliberal centralism.
 @reuven2010  Not really. As an example, you can still find a big 3-4 bedroom house in Central America for half the price of an average house in Ottawa. I know because I have been looking for one.
​@marcfavell sorry the average tiny home now in major populated areas of Canada range in the 200 to 300 grand range.  Any one that pays that for a fucking walking closet is insane.  What we need is a small responsible government and control on corporate greed.
Even then we're not safe because everyone's being forced to sell to foreign investors so condos can be built on the land. You usually get a nice chunk of change for a property if you're fortunate to own one but that's only so helpful when there's no other homes to buy or our interest rates and the cost of any home now are both so incredibly high across the country.
Nah. 2009 was a very good time to buy.  Sh*t ain't gonna last. My house(I'm in USA) is worth 6 times what I paid for it 15 years ago according to Zillow!  SIX TIMES!!!  It's INSANE!  We've had inflation & I've put some money into it, but that is f*cking crazy!  It's a wooden box made out of glorified toothpicks & popsicle sticks!  Plus, back in 2009, Uncle Sam gave me nearly 20% of the purchase price they were so desperate for people to buy houses. BUT, that's in part as the market was crazy just a few years prior & they were trying to, not exactly put Humpty Dumpty back together, but at least stop his eggy insides from going down the drain!  Here's the problem in some ways with blaming any government for Tulip Mania....it's f*cking greedy stupid idiots the ones out there paying moron prices for tulips!  Then again, some of the reason for this is because governments everywhere bailed out these people before.
 @RenateDeBruyn  Very true.  As long as there's enough suckers to believe this, the price of tulips and baseball cards will keep going up.
Better than 40 years ago when the mortgage rate was 20% and families were throwing their keys on bankers desks. And there were zero jobs in the early 80’s, you couldn’t get a paper route. I promise that powdered milk for a few years stinks.
In much of the .70s, all of the '80s, and most of the '90s mortgages had double digit interest rates, high down payments and risk-averse banks.  And just like now, you needed to have money and a damn good job to get a house.
 @jamesstuart3346  As a New Brunswicker, I concur. You might even learn some French. Buy a 4 wheeler too for exploring. I have a dirt bike myself. Get above Miramichi. Personally I like along Route 11 between Grand Anse and Bathurst. Most beautiful drive when the sunsets.
​@aynrandfan7454  Oh dear...even 15 year ago MY PARENTS BOUGHT ME MY FIRST HOME😢
​ @aynrandfan7454  WHAT? "Even 15 year ago WHEN MY PARENTS BOUGHT ME MY HOUSE...IT WAS NOT THAT BAD" 😂😂😂 Good Grief.
Nah, not in India  Last year I built an 8BHK, 1Acre of area Bungalow at my hometown in Odisha at 5Cr INR (8.3 Hundred Thousand CAD) at the age of 24.
Like the other guy on Reddit answer how to make LSD kick faster, just take it earlier...
Just select a conservative president like Argentina’s and after 2 years Canada will be rich again
pretty much. I got out of Canada and repatriated 20 years ago. Even back then it was a largely unachievable dream (granted, I lived in Vancouver). So back then I paid 850 CAD to rent a 900 sq.ft. one bedroom apt in the West End, by the Coal Harbour.  Kind of expensive I thought, but worth it for a young guy. Probably rents at 3500 now. This is a building from the 60's, not the new (then) towers.
 @ProspectiveProspector  you are quite right, and your age is? I wasn't ready for it until my late 40s, when my peace and quiet became my #1 cherished valuable. You can't talk sense into a young man, you just can't, it has to come to him.
 @ProspectiveProspector  so, life lessons from an early age. Some, most of us are cocooned and don't get them. In hindsight you were fortunate, as corny as it sounds.
American here, trust me - life in the U.S. is much more expensive. A corporation and grifter is behind everything sector you need to survive. We're not the most indebted country by mistake, it's by design
 @ProspectiveProspector  white flight caused Detroit's downfall, it caused the businesses and politicians moved financial resources to allocate to areas where they're moving to / along with businesses. Same occurred with every other U.S. city
In 2018 i bought my apartment when it didn't have not even a brick, i finally got it in 2023 after spending on my rent + the apartment i got in 2023. In 2018 i was getting less money, same as my wife but could afford it more or less.   Now i have a mortgage for 15 years and the first years passed, BUT today my wife tripled her salary and more or less me too... But thanks to this housing problem, for me it is impossible to buy a new one even if i put all my money in the apartment again, new buyers have this more complicated today.  Thankfully i started to pay for it in 2018.  Today, i wouldnt have a house.  😢  Everything happens in colombia, so it means the housing problem is happening apparently everywhere except for japan.
Kids today want everything handed to them 40 yrs ago we worked like hell to get things it hasn’t changed . You want something you work for it !
With the average wages people had 35 years ago, and mortgage interests of 18%. Doesn't seem so rosy now does it?
Sweden suffers from a bit of the same problem - though it is not nearly of this magnitude.
Before you were even born, you should have bought a house in Canada
@ProspectiveProspector I'm sorry you are broken 💔. But in most cases it's our own people that break us. My own family has done more damage to me than any other race. Sound familiar ? I'm a Pringle yea . But I don't live in a basement or am addicted to white powder. I'm also not a victim and continually chooooose to be one. I lived on a reservation in the interior or b.c half my life. I've seen what other people can do to a culture and worse what a culture can do to itself. When people decide to break the cycle and work hard at something for even just a few years . They don't talk the way you do. No one is forcing you onto a reservation. You have the same .....NO . You have more opportunity than most Canadians. Unfortunately most choose a bottle. As a Pringle I dealt with alcoholism as well . And poverty . I just don't point the finger . I look inward . I wish you the very best .
House is paid now just the loans and groceries we can't afford
It was still not easy in that it took many decades to pay for the house. It's now impossible to first time Canadian home buyers.
 @VisiblyPinkUnicorn That’s sad to hear. I was hoping to sell my house in Canada and buy a house in Italy on the Adriatic Sea.
 @mikesterloc  Uh, well, you can do that, but you should forget Northern Italy (especially South Tyrol, Trento and Aoste, they're expensive as hell) and focus on center-southern Italy... like, Calabria, Sicily or Puglia. If you go there you can find easily a good deal, but you'd have a problem with a higher crime rate compared to the northern regions (mostly petty crimes, criminal organizations are still around but it's not like the 70's anymore. You're not going to end up in The Godfather IRL if you go for a walk in Naples XD). A good compromise between cost of living and crime rate if you really like Italy could be represented by the Marches: they're cheaper compared to the northern regions, safer than the southern regions and the climate is fine on the coastlines (the average temperature in Ancona in january is 10°C, 30°C in august).
 @beerasaurus  Thirty-five years ago the mortgage interest rate was 8%. People made a lot less money! It might have been easier but it also does not help that people have gotten used to buying big SUV's and a whole list of other luxury items that they would not give up! We had to make sacrifices too if we wanted to own a house!
it's the same in the usa corprate greed is the real problem
Do not support the war anywhere! I am a homeless 😢😢😢😢😢😢😢😢
 @reuven2010 not in Asia.  lol the “everywhere else is like this too” doesn’t work my friend
It's very easy. Just don't get kicked out from your parent's house.
35 years ago the minimum wage was. 3.75 an hour. It’s almost 18$ an hour now.
 @zxrcanada should the government build and finish a place for you? It’s expensive because the pandemic has companies doing a cash grab. It’s the corporations that are at fault. They received money during the pandemic but they’re convinced they got shorted.  If the price is higher than you feel is fair don’t pay it and write their head office, add a picture of the item on the shelf and tell them, politely why it’s still there.
Same with my country. Boomers are like it was the same in their day......nope. No it was not.
 @reuven2010  In the UK it's still relatively easy. I bought mine 5 years ago at 23.
I got the cheapest trailer in the Trailer Park. It's all a question of adequacy and some perceptions do need a change. Go remote and live better.
As a worker, a worker shortage is what you want. If there is a surplus of workers and millions of more people than jobs, there's no incentive to pay competarive wages. supply and demand.
We are mortgage free in Canada. But where is doctors shortage, public transit and roads are not matching this massive invasion. And prices on food and cars are rip-off.
Yup 35 years of wage stagnation all over the world. Yet we still selfishly blame immmigrants and taxes
 @rso823  In 2023 I left Canada and working in Belgium. Housing is affordable here. My young collègue got second mortgage for second apartment. My younger relatives and others are able to buy houses in Belgium. Detached house on big lot not far from train station is 500K CAD. Brick walls, all flooring is cement. With long lasting roofing. This is how much it was in Canada around 2008. Now it is 1500K CAD. For cookiecutter build from 2x4 and drywall, roof with cheap shingles.
My father a VERY WISE MAN, always said ..  NEVER LET YOUR HEART OVER RULE YOUR COMMON SENSE.
Hey! Thanks for the advice I'll let you know how it goes 🙏🏽
 @zxrcanada  Welcome to Postcolonian slavery. Sympathise with everybody struggling needlesly. In the 60's in Britain we had a saying, "I am alright Jack, pull up the ladder". Seems as true today!
If you can’t buy a house get a condo or even something like a nice pre built home. There’s a reason why tiny houses and stealth car camping is getting popular. If the liberals get their way most people will be living on the streets.
I’ve been looking and I’ve seen perfectly affordable homes 200k and under
@ where?😟 I don't think we're living in the same Canada
 @Mynewlife1988 your exaggerating. Home investment is the best investment. There’s minimal house repairs.
Damn instead of wasting my time non existing 35 years ago, I should of worked and saved towards a house.
My uncle and aunt bought a small duplex in Toronto over 25 years ago that is now worth we’ll over a million dollars. They are selling this year and moving to Montréal where it’s much cheaper. They really cashed in with that one
try living in brasil, you can buy a house after 3 lifes reincarnate or live in a slum paying ''taxes'' to gas, water and energy to drug dealers or can be a politician with a salary of almost 47k with a bunch of more crap to paying even more money
That’s how CA feels. Unfortunately I’m 31. It was over for me at birth.
I did, and you're correct, I'm living well. Thanks for the tip! From Victoria 👋😊
​ @aynrandfan7454  Ayn Rand? 😂😂😂 She was a clown. I can see why someone who depends on their parents instead of having the satisfaction of achieving their own maturity would like her though.
 @zxrcanada that’s why it’s called a “mort” gage. A debt until you die.
​ @eleanorsnyder3919  Nice! I love acreage. I grew up in Winnipeg and moved to Victoria in 1988 as a young RN. I bought a 2 bedroom, full basement house on a fairly large lot, in quiet neighbourhood, 5 minutes from downtown in 1997 for 193,000. I used to joke that when its value reached a million, I'd sell it & travel the world. It wasn't a serious thought at all. Well... my last assessment was just over 1.1 million... Honestly, that's insane and stupid. It's just a small house, granted on a large lot for a city. But still!!! How can young people afford this! Of course I'm not complaining for myself but I find it ridiculous. I know that I'm lucky, although I did work hard. I just feel bad for young people here. Take good care of yourself! 👋🌠
​ @talesfromlastnight6109  I would never leave the best country in the world.
​ @CorporateShill66  Canada is the best country in the world. Name one that's better? Sick of hearing idiots  b itch about it. Leave, don't let the foor... you know the rest.
4 words  .  Passive naive crown loyalists.  Or two.  US Fodder.
Most homes in this country are quite reasonable! 30 years ago I was making around 70 k per year as a miner! Today my son makes 150 k per year as a miner! 35 years ago I was renting in Winnipeg an average town house rented for $1200 a month! So $2500 is quite reasonable!  Provinces regulate the prices! Conservative run provinces are the worse! Lots of greed!
@ I make 250k a year at a big four accounting firm …you are likely one of those whiny losers who complain that everything is unaffordable while not pulling their own weight so maybe move to a smaller city
 @reuven2010  No it's worse. Not only is housing high...we already pay some of the highest taxes and the cost of goods is so much more than it is south of the border. Then there's the shortage of jobs that don't pay enough to afford the basics even if you can manage to get one and then there's the crumbling road infrastructure that essentially requires you to own a 4X4 if you want to get to that rare job because living in the city isn't affordable. If you do own a suitable vehicle for our roads the cost to fill it up once or twice per week probably costs $100 or more and then there's the cost of insuring that vehicle which is at least $100/month just for liability because the road infrastructure means you're more likely to end up in an accident.  The rest of the world is expensive but I have friends who came here from 3rd world countries and tell me they have it worse than they did where they came from and are planning to go back home if only they could afford the ticket.
It is shocking that people don't have the understanding Canada has a limited services it takes time to develop those services to bring more people in if you start bringing in more people then with the system can handle You're going to have problems. Another problem we're going to have in the receivable future there is no more standard language anymore communication it's going to be difficult.
and rent your garage for 20 people to make over 60 000$ month for free.
My dad bought his house in 1978 for $68,000 which in todays dollars is $295,000.   I just checked the real estate and a similar  house is up for sale for $388,000.   I use a Canadian inflation calculator.   So it  is about 30% higher in actual price today than in 1978.   Minimum wage in 1978 was $2.95 per hour and in 2024 it is $15.80.    If minimum wage was $16.80 it would equal $2.95 in 1978 as far as  house inflation goes.   So wages are behind about 1/16 which is not a lot.   So therefore I don't understand the problem in buying a house for young people in 2024.    I bought a house in 1985 for $85,000 and I paid it off in 1989 and my interest rate was up around 9%.  I put $22,000 down and put every spare cent into paying off the mortgage.   I lived at home until I was 28 and saved my money.   I never  borrowed money for anything.   My car I bought for cash in 1981 and it was a used car for $5000 which today would  be $16,000 today.  I worked on the railway and maybe made $25,000 in 1986 which is about $70,000 in todays money.   Also I have two daughters who finished University and I saved up $80,000 to pay for their education.  They didn't pay a cent.   I went to University for 6 years and I paid for it all myself by working 4 months every summer and I also paid my father board and room.   I have had weekend jobs since I was 14 years old working at a car wash, bakery and meat packers on the hog kill floor and then on the CPR pounding spikes.   I can't really understand what is going on and why young adults can't afford housing.   My wife's friends have no money.  They have a house with mortgage to pay and 2 car loans.
There is a SOLUTION.  Leaving politics aside for a while, if that is even possible, one impressive way to 'turbocharge' the big landmass and its people, America and Canada, would be to wipe away the border which stunts progress, divides people and creates tension at times.   Elon or some other wealthy dude should be able to fork out some money to Canadian adults to make it happen since there are only about 30 mil. adults in the big land.   Canada has a shrinking GDP per capita, a weakening Canadian dollar, inflation issues, an increasing cost of living and housing crisis.  Some Canadians still think that they need a king ' hovering ' over them in these modern times who lives on a faraway island but what they really do need is lower taxes and a strong (American) military to protect the arctic.   On another note, just think of Canadians as well as people from other nations who have gone to America to seek their fame and fortune and have been successful.  A prime example would be S. African born Musk who spent three years in Canada, went south to America to seek his fame and fortune and is likely to become the world's first trillionaire.
lol so true. I wish I was able to by one when I was 10
 @aynrandfan7454  wasn’t bad at all for you.  How are you even allowed to comment 😂
 @RenateDeBruyn  it’s actually not.  Once you add all the interest plus maintenance you will be lucky to break even
@ it’s a free country just like now America is free under TRUMP
Same in netherlands here, house price are now dubbled in arround 10 years and the minimum income only incresead with 15 or 20 % but house prices increased 100% in those same 10 years so it make no sense
Even In mexico.  Average home 200k. 20 years ago was 50k
@ now thats how nothing money is worth. Money u have now is 10years later only 50% of now. U have to invest in gold or a house
 @nealpringle710  The reality is very different for Native people that are free of the Canadian Crushing Tax Burden. For us, we are heavily crushed from all directions.
​@reuven2010 Thanks to money laundering and passive income supported by inflation as we play chicken with the Boomer's needs in old age, vs everyone after starting a life.
25 years ago u can buy homes in the best ereas in s. California under 100k nice family homes  In very nice area
@ I understand.  However I’m not thinking of selling .. that is to recoup my investment for a profit.  I am thinking of staying in the house/condo after it is paid and then to be mortgage free.
 @frostflower5555  Rate Range: Rates rose from around 7.54% in 1971 to 11.20% by 1979.  Yeah, sounds great 50 years ago.
my friend 35 was given two houses by his dad who is a landlord, no mortgage he complains about having to decorate his 2nd house with his paycheck and pay internet.
 @zxrcanada that's what socialism does! Breaks every one down to complete poverty so you're fully dependent on the government. We warned you but you laughed at us! Good Luck
I jumped up the boat 15 years ago. But for the new generation, zero chance.
note that saying that is not what is happening is a bit to string there is definatly also a crazy increase in rent prices in the cities.
The same thing has been happening for the past 4 years in the usa. It's possible that it'll be reversed though. Unlike most western countries the United States has an unique ability to bounce back after hard times. It's because the federal government doesn't have complete power over the people. Each of the states kind of govern themselves. What is 100% clear is that there has to be  balance between Republicans and democrats for a country to run properly. Whenever a country or a state moves extremely to the left or extremely to the right it falls apart. The reason Canada is falling apart is because it  moved extremely far to the left.  California is another example of what is happening in Canada. It's impossible to get logical solutions without balance and arguments from both sides. Some people delusionaly believe that Canada is superior because  of universal healthcare when they fail to realize that it's not ran properly and   that it's only one issue out of thousands. Yes universal Healthcare would be awesome but the United States is bigger than all of the European countries combined!! It would be insanely difficult to effectively do universal healthcare in the United States because we basically have 50 countries combined on one land mass! I want it to happen but we would obviously have to do it in baby steps or it would be one gigantic disaster because the government sucks at everything. At first we should be covered for major life threatening surgery and illnesses. Maybe 8 years after that we  add regular doctor appointments and medications. In my opinion it would need to be a decade long project not something we foolishly do over night. Of course we wouldn't do it the slow and steady way because we're a crazy country that wants everything immediately 😂. Maybe a better solution would be that each state set's up their own individual  universal Healthcare 🤔. Other than the healthcare issue the United States is without a doubt the best country to live in and you can easily move to another state if things get bad. The United States is the only country with real 2nd amendment rights. There's a couple other countries that you can buy boom sticks but it's extremely difficult and you can't carry them for protection. The United States has a military that is so powerful that it could basically take on the entire planet in a war. There's never been a military like the United States in human history. Even the Roman's didn't have a military as powerful as the United States. The only thing preventing nato countries from being invaded is the United States. Russia and China aren't afraid of countries like England or Germany. They don't attack those countries because they know that the United States would defend them. The United States is the only thing that's preventing the west from being conquered and a lot of citizens in nato countries aren't even greatful and talk smack about Americans. Technically nato citizens in countries like England and Germany should be buying a beer for Americans that visit their countries 😂. The United States helped Germany and Japan after world War 2 instead of taking them over which is something that they never would have done for us! Like seriously the United States is awesome and generous whether they want to admit it or not. When rome and England were the world's main superpower they weren't nearly as nice as the United States! Just my personal opinion.
At least you are not in the US this same thing happening but worse but is always easier to see the mistake in the neighbors
 @Shenmue06  【Russia and China aren't afraid of countries like England or Germany. They don't attack those countries because they know that the United States would defend them.】 -- who told you that China has the plan to attack England or Germany?
 @frostflower5555  I bought a house in 1987.  It was EASY.  I was an admin. assistant (not government paid), and my partner was a warehouse clerk.  There were lots of federal programs for first-time buyers.  The interest rates were high, but still, it was SO affordable.  A 1 1/2 storey brick house for $32K.  Yes, indeed.  I'm sure that's worth at least $500K now.  We got divorced and sold it young, so IDK.  I've been poor ever since.
Hey its almost the same here in the US. We're catching up!
 @reuven2010   not really but kinda, it's not “great” but definitely better it's a fact that Canada does have things worse.
Why do you think that's different from America or England or France or Germany?
You're absolutely wrong. Without a stable job and saving even if you bought a house 35 years ago, you have a hard time paying taxes and maintenance.
when you take inflation into account the price of a house is exactly the same now as it was 35 years ago ---- there is no value increase but you've paid thousands in taxes and repairs
​ @stevenlake5278  I'm Brazilian. I think this crisis is all around the world in 2003 here in Brazil, it was easy to buy a house, it was almost free. But, today is almost impossible...
 @beerasaurus  Geez, it's only 12 days and 525 comments have popped up already?
go in any countries and buy a house 35 years ago. living will be easy.
Well we don’t have 7 billion people in the world before . We’re running out of resources but people won’t slow down on usage
man all that time i was in my crib crying and having my mom change my dipers i should of been investing for real
 @artyomnuzhdin8711 …you are another one of these immigrants who listen to the Canadian siren song. These beautiful posters of the Rockies did fool many new comers. But you need to do your homework before moving to a foreign country. First study all the statistics issued by the government and you’ll see many discrepancies with the official narrative. Always be aware of countries who advertise « free social benefits ». In general they attract the wrong people who become a burden for the community. Remember how the dominions with the Union Jack were populated: Mostly by people who did not succeed in their home countries to make a decent living. Before trying to change Canada maybe you should have tried to change your home country.
 @marcfavell …not totally true. In my municipality run by NDP home owners on sceptic tanks and well pay the same taxes as the owners on public utilities. When fighting against the municipally in administrative courts they always lost. As you may know only a portion of your water bill and waste water bill is consumption. 50% are fixed costs everybody pays. The municipality claims everybody has to finance the expansion of the utilities network either you are hooked up or not. Maybe you could find a municipality in the Yukon or Northwest Territories where this does not apply.
 @patrickwahle6280  You are definitely a heavy burden for community. Very heavy.
 @aynrandfan7454  I moved to Toronto in 1969 and rents were high back then.
@ I have tenants in Vancouver who pay me 4k a month for a 3 bedroom apartment on the 18th floor which is pretty reasonable given the market conditions. I haven’t raised rents in 3 years
My parents bought a house in East Van in 1990 when mortgage interest rates were like 20% but paid it off and are in good shape. They never made more than $25/hour.
​ @quixomega  I have a tiny home, its probably the cheapest way to own a home, the version i have is 120,000 but most people purchase versions that are between 60,000-90,000. Regular house is out of reach for most people
Yea that sounds just like the US OF A 🥲🙏 “you’re lazy” dawg I’m poor trying to find an apartment where the rent is double the mortgage rate
 @zxrcanada  literally explained to me how anything keeps anyone poor you have no idea what you’re talking about. You say things that you heard, but have never actually thought about once.
 @quixomega  why would you buy a property next to another human being? The Bible says he who builds his house next to his neighbor is sinner
⁠ @NaturalGC  a law needs to be passed that every house must be 200 feet from another house
⁠ @eleanorsnyder3919  this doesn’t make sense because Black people don’t know how to save $1000 and they’re too drunk and high to focus on the future. You’re preaching to the crowd everyone who knows how to do this has already done it and everyone who does not know how to do this will never learn it.
In America big companies are taking the homes,  especially seniors.
People need to stop trying to live in Toronto and Vancouver
Noted at 34 when I find time travel I'll make use of that knowledge
Are how about don't spend a whole bunch of money on getting married. Don't buy brand new cars and say my car whenever the bank owns it. Make do and do without. And your first house. Is never as pretty as your third or fourth one..  It cost way less as well.. yet with each year that passes and with more hard work. Making do and doing without. See that's the problem. This generation, has been raised by the tv. And the TV has a whole bunch of narcissistic programs on it. All you do is want and cry. Me me me me me me me me me me me me. iiiiiiiiiiiIIIIII....   Society needs to stand up for each other. Far and wide America Australia Canada europe. All over everywhere. We've got elites select groups that have gotten themselves into power positions. They have pulled their money on all of the industry. Clothing jewelry you name it they've pulled it.   You want change. Unfortunately everyone's going to have to fall hard. They have made us at different levels. And they have fashioned so many narcissist. It's going to take everyone to fall on their bottoms. To stand. Hopefully we don't have a mass kill off like they did this last time. Because we still outnumber these effers...   But I don't even know if humans have the ability to say no anymore. Every one of you can be controlled.. every single one of you. Every one of us has nanotechnology in us.. The Singularity has unfolded. That's why Bill Gates a computer nerd is in healthcare.. pretty soon. They're going to let us tear each other to shreds it'll be like the cell
We could probably take Cher's money she's been singing that song if we can turn back time constantly and I'm the one that gave her the lyrics I lived in Catskill New York I was abducted from my birth hospital but by age five the people gave me back but kept me surveilled.
Same in germany. Since 2015 and Covid 2020 Living cost in germany increase dramatically. I planing move to spain and right now in german Radio, that rent in Spain jumpt from 11€ to 22€ per sqm
Every Product is so expensive! People are going poor very poor, NO FUTURE for the average person! Only the rich can live nicely! 😢  BTW ; this is happening in Europe too.
Better still, buy and hold many homes 35 years ago, and sell it to the chumps from Hong Kong in 2024.
We bought ours 20 years ago and it's a giant house with really cheap pricing- 250000 ish idk how much
Bro... living in canada its a paradise in comparison with some other countries... no joke... if i could live in canada i would...
 @martapriya98  same everywhere !!! You can watch same Videos about Australia, about Europe, Africa, ,,,
saskatchewan it is still doable. ive done it at 24 with no help from parents, i just got lucky with a good job. if you dont have a good job but you have a partner, aslong as youre combined making around 30 an hour you can save a downpayment for a house 200k - 10k downpayment in sk within a year and a half. i did it, im an alcoholic too so you dont even have to be that great with money
Yeah but in Canada everything’s expensive. I live there. You’re not allowed to be poor, cause you’ll starve.And your not allowed to be rich cause you’ll get taxed 60%
 @davidmsefer6367  no way. That is only in Germany. We in germany paing even tax for Rain! Every Property owner pay tax for rain, cause the water go to puplic canalization ant fo this service we have to pay
I bought mine 8 years ago when I was 22 and we're living the dream. What's your excuse?
Actually it was 36 years ago for me, but close enough.  Plus I'm in the Vancouver area which has had the biggest value increase.
I was lucky enough to be able to buy a home 14 years ago, for $148,000k and then I sold it for double that this summer. We were able to downsize and pay for the house completely so now I have no mortgage. Even in doing that it's still a struggle afterwards.
Bought a small delapidated house ,on a big lot , in a village in alberta ,for $35k . Spent the last 20 years renovating it into a very comfy,asteticly pleasing  little gem of a house .If a person can find something that perhaps no one else wants ,your willing to invest work equity , use some ingenuity in purchasing or scrounging materials , and have a little humility and patience , you actualy can make a proud and preciuos home yourself .Just sayin'
 @vladimirofsvalbard9477  Such as wasting it in senseless wars, foreign countries and illegal immigrants.
Ha ha Broccoli 🥦 that shiz costs a fortune here in Australia too. Brassicas require alot of water and refrigeration
Everywhere...private property doesn't work with 8b humans and limited land. Socialize the land and give room for the raccoons, deers, lions, etc...
As a Canadian      Rent bills tv bill car bill phone bill food electricity bill and more
Why does the government let slumlords get away from stealing the money off your back? Answer: because they pay their taxes.
Too bad 35 years ago, I was busy learning the alphabet
I am lucky in that case. I was born in 1800s bought four properties, then ascended and came back in 2024.  You should have used that card too 😂
 @zxrcanada  A year ago I paid 180K (cash) for a brand new one bedroom and den condo (700 sq ft) in Edmonton, in a good Southwest neighbourhood. I'm not "slaving away" at all. For a good-size city of over 1 mil, Edmonton is more affordable than other similar sized cities in the country.
 @zxrcanada  you stay poor renting too, when the rents are 2k plus per month, and 40-50 years down the lane, you have no paid off home, but have paid off your landlords property.
 @beerasaurus  more, I'm 40 and my grandparents had the big house before I was born so like 55 yrs ago
I visited my family in Vancouver 30 years ago. It was perfect. Not too small. Not too big. Super clean. Beautiful. Vancouver Really had it all. I went back 4 years ago and couldn't recognize the city.
You should've bought your house while you was still in your mothers womb that way living in Canada would be like 30000x times easier.
But India has affordable  housing and economy  is booming
If you bought a house 35 years ago, you're probably homeless now because you can't afford to heat your home and eat
In 2004 I wrote a somewhat famous article called 'Top 8 reasons not to immigrate to Canada'. In short, the Canadian authorities tried to destroy my life. They made it so that I could not be employable in Canada. So I moved to the U.S. in 2005 and then some years later I moved permanently to the Philippines. I am happy that so many years later videos like yours are saying essentially the same things that I did. I was ahead of my time. I will never go back to Canada. Not to live, not to visit, not even a connecting flight. Too cold, too expensive, taxes are astronomical, no culture, no freedom, no jobs, no opportunities, only modern slavery, worst healthcare system, unbearable political correctness, crime infested/drug infested, xenophobic people, too depressing. It has become a North Korea style dictatorship in the western world.  There are many reasons why Canada has fallen apart. But the number one reason is ‘multiculturalism’. My friends, multiculturalism simply does not work. Different cultures do not come together and mix, different cultures come together and clash. The world is divided into different countries for a reason: because people hate each other and only want to be with their own kind. The number two reason for Canada’s demise is ‘socialism’. In this modern era of aging populations, it is mathematically impossible for socialism to continue. The government does not have the money to take care of old people and provide healthcare, pensions, welfare, unemployment benefits, disability benefits and the numerous other programs, even with the astronomical taxation that burdens hard working Canucks. Well Canada, you had a good run. Time for Canucks to move to an emerging country. We welcome you here in Southeast Asia.  Multiculturalism destroys the fabric and identity of a country. Socialism bankrupts a country.
Now you can afford a tiny house with a bedroom and living room together or mobile home
I always say, I shouldve bought a house in the early 2000s instead of being in elementary school
I am going to have to wait until my parents die until I get my own home.
 @reuven2010  your right...global over population is making less and less land available to live..global over population is putting a huge amount of pressure on the atmphere from co2 emissions earth is overheating.
To those who insist on patting themselves on the back for buying a house for 400k that is now 1.1 million, tell me this.  Can you go to White Rock to retire? Can you head to Gibsons? No. Because the homes there are 2.5 million. Motility in Canada is stifled. The equity required to go to the coast is potentially millions. And without a pension, enjoy your inflated property tax. The prices are not good for anyone, including current homeowners.
 @checkfactschecking I do not think they are lazy. I think they dont know their priority. But a house mean save money While too many but new car (or rent), new Apple Watch, new laptop, travel 1-2 Time a years, etc. It is their choice to Jake sacrifices for whist they want.
In the US even after you pay off your house  🏠  the government will take it if you don't pay the property taxes or for imment domain 😢
Not true, a house bought 35 years ago is now looked at as a developers wet dream. Legacy home owners in Calgary (for example) today are being approached by developers and even had SURVEYORS trying to access their properties to survey for a development WHEN NO INDICATION TO SELL HAS BEEN DISCUSSED! Houses in older communities are being demolished and replaced with huge ugly box like structures with no yards, inadequate parking or no parking. Plowing down every green thing in sight, it's beyond disgusting and should be illegal, how is this so -called "affordable housing"? We are being FORCED to move out or be surrounded by Mumbai Mansions, it is sick!, And where to move? New houses are over built and unaffordable, they BEGIN at 1 million! This government should step down IMMEDIATELY!
That's where inheritance comes in.  Some feel entitled to inhertiance.
You can still buy cheap house , but not in Vancouver or Toronto
About 2001 was the last real chance to buy a house near Toronto on an average income. I bought mine then on a single income. It's all of the wealthy immigrants that drove up prices. Good for people like me now, but not for average earners of today. If you want to own your first home now, you need to live very far from the major cities, simply the way it is.
Bought mine in 2018, no issue.  The issue is, where do you want to live?  Yes, times are hard but it can be done.
Better yet like all people rent out your basement and a room like we all did.  That how it worked.  But today KIDS want it all now.. THATS THEIR PROBLEM.. NOW NOW NOW.  Well did you ever think life was about working and making some real decisions.  OF COURSE NOT you young folk .  Are not really understanding when you only make $10,000 a year and your house purchase is 75K  You rent out spaces in your home. Get rents and work at it.
Yeah, okay I did that but I remember being mortgage poor back then as well.
@johncolautti9678  you have paperwork to go through when you have a home. You just don't live there, your also a landlord to whoever you rent to. It's done illegally here in my own city everywhere
Too cold for me.  Sorry.  Id visit or have a summer home there.  But i like modest weather.  I dont shovel and hate maryland.   Florida doesnt allow enough land and is too hot.  They didnt fix my car so i couldnt work and pay taxes.
My Son and his girlfriend just bought there 3 rd house he is 39 years old. and a parts person she works doing nails
 @kevinolesik1500  No its not my son with his grade 12 education and a parts person him and his girlfriend own 3 houses. They just bought there 3rd. You just have to be smart and not live beyond your means, As the old saying goes don t follow the Jones
Ever considered AB? My mom said це друга Украина.😊 I'm not promising it will be radically better but at least not as bad as BC. Think about it
@PrairieCossack  If I would like to live in the Ukraine, I would stay there. And Alberta is still Canada, the employment rules are pretty much the same everywhere. Especially for the professionals, I'm not sure about Macdonalds burger flippers. It was easy to get a job in the oil industry, but in trades, not as an engineer
Same story here.  They claim they want your skills but will not make it easy to obtain an entry into your professional field. My entire family also came here with those hopes but the reality is that the kids need to eat so they did whatever they could to keep food on the table.... Here we are many years later and none of them are working in their professional field, not even close. But hey, perhaps better than back home
why ukrainian degrees are not validated acrooss the world i see lot of such cases :face-turquoise-covering-eyes:
Same here. My father was a GP with an experience of 20 years. He took courses after courses to be recognized and climb back up as a doctor in Toronto. It's dehumanizing. You get stuck in the middle. The only upside I see to this is the passports we got and the Canadian degrees my siblings and I will be earning. Both of my parents have to work their asses off as minimum wage employees to make ends meet. No one is truly more hardworking than immigrants. Life is depressing here in a different way.
Same with my family, came as skilled migrants, then 4 years to prove the degree (from europe)
@joevarga5982  Different rules, green card lottery, no guarantee. Canada was easier.
As a third-generation Canadian, I learned never to trust what any government or immigration recruitment center tells you. If you have degrees and want to move to another country do your own research. Lots of countries will not accept degrees from other countries. That is a sad fact.
I'm not old enough to know what life in Canada was like 20 years ago, and for all my interest in history and politics this is the first time I've actually stopped to read stuff like this. I am so sorry for what you had to go through, I wish I had some way of apologizing on behalf of the nation, but even I a natural born citizen feel nothing but apathy towards our government. please let me make this clear that no one should have to jump over so many hurdles to get a job, especially if its a skilled trade.
I know Mexico might not seem much, but a lot of Ukranians found a home here after the war started. My friend Tanya, she came with a degree in architecture and she found a job inmediately even though there is quite the competition. Her husband Kolja a physcician also found a job in the field. Spanish is easy to learn for Ukranians as the phonetics are similar. People should stop migrating to rich countries where life is too expensive and look for countries which pay good salaries and cost of living is low.
Should have migrated to Australia. Mechanical engineer can find a good job in few days. A good one. As long as you have English
 @m_s_5750  I've met 3 doctors and 2 engineers who came here, told they would have a job.  They were all driving cabs.  Oh, and one qualified nurse.  That is in the last 5 years.  It's shameful, as far as I'm concerned.  ~ Nova Scotia
You should've come to Montreal.  It's actually livable here.  Cost of entry is small: how us that you have minimal interest for our language and culture.  Learn 10 words of French and you're our brother.  We've been here since 1534 by the way.  I believe we deserve that much.
Every Anglo country is protectionist like this.  All of them.  A medical diploma from the best med school in Germany is worth nothing in America.
 @eustacemcgoodboy9702  It's an extension of the "American Exceptionalism" concept.  And it's just so wrong!
Happened to me too, I am dentist from Argentina I came 1989, was exams and other’s requirements so expensive for me at that time, that I just had to forgot about my profession!😢 but there are other people with different standards, sad
Perhaps Saskatchewan would be better. They seem to be more willing to accept people who have degrees from other countries.
Same thing with my dad, as a mechanical engineer, he couldn’t raise two kids with working for nothing getting his peng. He switched to trucking instead.
Hi Igor, that's really sad to hear. Nowadays, it's easier to prove your engineering degrees (talking from a point of an Electrical and Electronics Engineering) in Canada thanks to overall globalization of the former Soviet Union countries and advancements in the world communications, but there are other challenges in the job seeking. Still, at least there are no jumps through the hoop to meet the job requirement of a degree.
 @acharat6  funny. Years ago when I worked for the US federal government I was sent to work on  the border near Buffalo. Back then all one had to say is what their citizenship is. One of the Customs officers she told me that the Quebec truck drivers often give her a hard time. She would ask them their citizenship. They won't answer so she would tell them to park over there. After a while they would return speaking English that way they were allowed to proceed into the US to deliver their cargo
 @eustacemcgoodboy9702  some doctors from the Philippines end up taking the nurses exam in the US because it would be difficult to become a medical doctor on the degree back home.
Brain drain for your motherland who educated you.. Just saying.  😔🤷
 @sarcomakaposi2054  I work side by side with many Mexican people here in Vancouver. I think they have a good reason not to be in Mexico
@alexchaharnyi8640 I mean the Ukraine. Let's not go into politics here. You can express your political views somewhere else
@bengurion5285  They had strict age restrictions back then, not sure about now
@Agent-mb1xx  I'm not complaining, just stating the facts. I left that place way before the first 'revolution' and never looked back. My angel guardian took good care of me.
everybody is his own blacksmith of life... but not everybody is a good blacksmith...I came 18 years ago alone  from germany did not speak any english.. run since 10 years my own business und recently opened a second one... as an engineer you could have done that too
My dad worked in Samsung R and D - ended up working odd shifts upon arrival…..😂
 @mikephillips2984  Yes there is a reason: American doctors like owning lake houses and being millionaires.  Competing with foreign labor would drive them down to reasonable low 6 figure salaries.
I knew an eye surgeon who had to completely start over because all his records were lost in Germany in ww2. He did it.
 @Saujas  not just Ukrainian deg any outside  deg is not valid
I'm so sorry to hear that. It's sickening to hear people talk about forgetting about whatever passion drives you, but, instead, to discard your passion for the passion of accumulating money and wealth. I think it's a disease that is an epidemic and has been around since the dawn of society. I think it's a mark of the decline of a society.
 @igorpro8462  I live in Mexico. People not wanting to be here is entirely circumstantial. They'd rather invest their efforts in a foreign country than stay here and fight for what they want. This is a big country and conditions are not the same everywhere. The state i live in is doing well. Even Americans and some Canadians are flocking in. :face-blue-smiling:
Yes, but you fail to include that this type of gatekeeping exists in ALL countries around the world.  This is not a Canadian only practise.  And Canadians should give engineering jobs to Canadian born first, and then if they can't find a candidate, broaden their search to immigrants.  C'mon; it's what Ukrainians do every day of the week.  I'm a teacher.  The Ukrainians may not hire me, if there's a Ukrainian born person with same credentials.  It's a bit narcissistic and entitled to think they would.  Also, the Canadian gov't has a branch that evaluates foreign university degrees.  I can say with certainty, that an African trained doctor DOES NOT have the same credentials as a Canadian, and they should not be entitled to practising medicine in Canada.  For starters, the values are completely different, as is the 'bedside manner'.  Nurses from the Philippines are basically lab technicians according to Canadian standards.  I don't want a lab technician being my nurse when I'm recovering from surgery.  The word University 'graduate' signifies nothing.  Maybe English was the issue?  We don't have the full story.
and nöw youve put a pipe err höle in ...mäny house höldce v?v
@sarcomakaposi2054  A lot of Mexicans are just temporary workers here, in Canada, but still... I would like to retire in Mexico, somewhere in Playa del Carmen :)
We want skilled workers in the sense we want people who aren't idiots. There's little or no intention to use people in their original field of expertise.
Polish/Canadian(Ukranian) ... Same story for my parents, they needed to put  food on the table so they took any type of jobs although skilled and well educated. I moved over 10 years ago to Ukraine where I live with my wife and children. I left Canada over 20 years ago after getting my degree in Montreal. Canada is not the same country; it went down hill. Now I live in western Ukraine, learned Ukranian and Russian my son just started his  degree in France. And I must say that I never wanted to go back. It would be  impossible for my wife to get a job in her field (Medical doctor ) without passing a long process and we are better being in Europe.
I mean you shot yourself in the foot by going to Canada, when you should have stuck to Europe which has integration programs, in Norway for example we pay 25k kr per person when you get here, which is insulting to native Norwegians who have to live on the street, but whatever at least Ukrainians work compare to the Albanians and Pakistanis.
 @TodAufDerFlutch  isn't is sad that general public has no idea about any of this. many in fact will claim being an immigrant is fantastic and we should be forever grateful and servile.
 @MsLinda165  yes but many other countries do not advertise to be a heaven where you come for your merits, education being one of the, and than be offered nothing but to spend more money on more education. it is just that canadians think their schools are better, but really many are waste of money and a joke
Govt., especially bureaucratic barriers, IS the problem, NOT the solution.  The private sector, unburdened by govt., will quickly solve economic problems.
 @januszmarcinguszak201  The Anglo island fortress colonies do suck but they offer a huge moat between themselves and Russia so there is that...
Truth, the system is very corumpt,  one one hand  they tell you we need your skills, et on the other hand, they forbidden your to practice your skill, only to please a big admistration !
 @eustacemcgoodboy9702  There is a reason for that.  America is a litigious society.  You need to know how to practice medicine in America before you practice it.  Culture, language, procedures, etc., everything will be different in America.
It’s not any better in AB, or anywhere else in Canada. The engineering organizations make it very difficult for no good reasons. It’s something we need to change with many professions to make them more accessible to immigrants with degrees and capabilities
These stories really upset me. I have been an immigrant in another country and I was treated so well, then to hear my home country treats immigrants so poorly has been polarizing and disappointing. I would not expect this to be the cases nor should it be.
 @eustacemcgoodboy9702  you could go to Switzerland or Skandinavia, if its about money
The truth is there are no engineering jobs in canada as Canada shed its manufacturing. Carpentry will always be the better option.
They lied to you about your skills. They needed already formed [yet another] dude to work for eldery helpless pensioners. А вцілому, так тобі і треба, будеш знати ціну домівки. Ти там ніхто.
Ontario is passing new laws to recognise PROFESSIONAL degrees, with new Canadians only having to write the Exams.
@ostravska  it really is appalling, as a nation which prided itself on the inclusivity of different cultures while still providing great services for all people. While I don't exactly believe in placing blame on people, it's sad to see that some people within our ruling government have a very shallow idea of what's been transpiring. If feels really disconnected and I believe change is needed, whether it be through a change in leadership or simply just a better more practical observation.
Like I was born abdcraisedin Canada. Did my schooling here. Struggle so much to find a job in high school. And when I finally found something, I wouldn't have saved anything if I left to live on my own. And this was back in 2015 when things were not this insane.
My coworker is an anesthesiologist. His wife a pharmacist. Both from the Ukraine. It didn’t make sense for him to go do all the loops to become an anesthesiologist again in Canada as they had three kids. She was able to be a pharmacist as I guess it wasn’t as challenging to do so.  He works as an ICU nurse with me. He misses it but he’s going to retire soon. He gave his kids a good life regardless. Such a family centred man. I’m sad he didn’t get to continue his career he worked so hard on
Degrees around the world are not at the same standard as Canadian degrees. That is a fact. I have two Canadian degrees, and I certainly do no want all my efforts and many years of education be degraded because someone from some other country who claims to have the same degree, but with far less standards. I am sure everyone with a high level degree understands that. We need standards, and Canada has some of the highest of standards in the world. That isnt a bad thing.   If you are a doctor, you have to pass a test to practice in Canada. If you are from a country that has a history of being more of a Sludge Hammer mechanic, than a mechanical engineer, you should expect we want proof you can perform at our standards. There are very few countries that have the very high standards of education that Canada has. None of this was hidden when you come to Canada. So, dont whine that we want you to meet our standards, be proud you are now a Canadian with some of the highest standards in the world.
 @raleighepp5274 Argentina was the best place 100 y ago until communist party came with chigivara fans
I’m from Montreal and i despise that any fucking pencil pusher can just prevent you guys from getting the jobs you deserve after moving halfway across the world and having to start a new life. It’s really unjust and disgusting what the "professional unions and societies" and whoever decides that a degree that isn’t from Canada or the US is worthless, yet they dare decry "that we don’t have enough professionals filling these important positions"
@ Of course I will love to go back, all my family live in Argentina, I am the only one living in Canada with my sons but they already finished University and successfully working. Argentina is doing very good with Milei, he is changing the country and I have a lot of hope he is going to make the country GREAT!!
UKRAINE AT THAT TIME WAS VERY GOOD COUNTRY 1USA = 3 UAH.YOU COULD RETURN OR LOOK FOR A JOB IN EUROPE 😊
 @CJZ964 they only want cheap labour , some body to fill up lower wages job 😂
​@Saujas  Europe is ok because it is ok, because it check by Hague convention !USA and Canada is a problem, they still want you to go to school before  you can get a job in your field 😂
 @acharat6  Thats what we did and while a beautiful city to explore and beautiful country side, there was no future there and still isnt. Have family that stayed. Worst mistake of their lives.
Tell me about it.   I lived in BC for several years and in 1974 I spent a year at a local community college.   The instructors were excellent and I got almost all A' s.   Instead of continuing at UBC or SFU, I transferred to MIT, (yes, that MIT) in Cambridge MA.   When I graduated, with a BSc in Computer Science and Engineering, along with most of an EE degree, I returned to Vancouver.   I thought it would be a good idea to investigate what was required to become a Professional Engineer, and had an interview with the chief honcho of the BC Association of Professional Engineers (BC APE at that time).  I was told my degree, despite being an Engineering degree from a highly accredited Engineering school, was not equivalent to anything offered at UNC.   So if I wanted to become a P.Eng, I would have to first take several courses at UBC.   Then I would have to be sponsored by a local company that was accredited by the BC APE.    I was also told that the term Computer Engineer was syntactically incorrect and that in BC, there was no such thing as a Computer Engineer.    All this was moot because I would still need to get hired by a company that was accredited with the BC APE.   I interviewed with many if the penny-ant "high tech" companies that were starting to grow ( with generous infusions of taxpayer's money ) at that time.  Hiring then was done through the universities.   Few tech jobs were advertised in the local paper ( before the internet ).   I dropped into the recruiting office at UBC one day and was able to copy down a few job listings before I was told to leave.   That's more of my tax dollars at work there.    I was able to find work and helped one entrepreneur earn his retirement.   Eventually I moved to California, where I had over 35 years of well-paying work, at NASA, Microsoft, AMD,  and many other lesser known companies.   I discovered that the Canadian Professional Engineer's Association, which encompasses all the provincial ones, signed an agreement with their US counterpart, over 50 years ago, to recognize engineering degrees from the other country.   So even when I went to the BC APE HQ and talked to their head honcho, this agreement was current.   By telling me I had to have completed a course by course equivalent of local BC accredited courses in order to have my MIT degree accredited by the BC APE, the were not abiding by a signed bilateral agreement.    So I have no regrets for leaving Canada, where my tax dollars would be used to prevent me from being employed and where the provincial Professional Engineer Associatons  do not abide by a bilateral agreement they have signed with their counterparts in the USA.   It is very unfortunate for Canadian tech  comoanies that they are under the thumb of these people.   Did you know that you cannot even call yourself an Engineer in BC if you are not a P.Eng?    It is little wonder so many Canadian Engineering graduates pack up and move to the USA.   When I have flown back to Canada, on Air Canada, close to Christmas, the plane was packed with 20-30 year old men, all originally from Canada, and now working in Silicon Valley.
 @Saujas  Because there is very high corruption and you can buy diploma and any other documents.
They don't recognize your international degree however when you get it assessed (by WES) they will say it is equivalent. Though say it's equivalent you will not get an Engineering job. Canada is really a country that strives off Trades. It's just vest to do a 2 year diploma in a Trade or start and Apprenticeship( if yiu are young enough)
@igorpro8462  seems to be a common occurance. That is a shame.
You're not the only one here, but it's not limited to Canada, it happens everywhere. I have doctor friends who work here as doctors and engineers who work as engineers. In my workplace most engineers around me are immigrants. At least I blame myself.
its a skewed Canadian system that fails to take advantage of what skilled immigrants brings to the table. The Federal government set up the selection requirements for prospective skilled immigrants but the Provincial Government is the one who set up its own requirement for local employment in the province. The main problem is that both the Federal Government and the Provincial Government does not talk or come out with a solution to integrate skilled immigrant to the provincial workforce seamlessly to help the immigrant save time and money.
 @CJZ964  No future in Montreal?  Really?  I mean I lived here most of my life and every person I know who worked reasonably hard at school got a good career.   I grew up in a very average middle class family (my mother was a high school teacher and father was a translator).  Today, I'd say 80% of my friends/acquaintance earn between 100 to 150k, myself included.  My most recent new acquaintance, a nice Moroccan guy who invited my young daughter to her daughter's birthday has been here for less than 3 years with a communications background and made his way up really fast and already drives a 60k car.  College is affordable here and nobody looks down on someone who change career or decide to learn a new trade at age 40+.  I mean life isn't that easy anywhere and you can sometimes be unlucky, but saying there's not future in Montreal is just not true.
​ @RichardRoy2  The OP is not talking about giving up his passion to accumulate wealth.  He was talking about getting a job to survive because his credentials were not accepted in Canada!
Same thing happened to my father when we arrived in 1981. "Oh yes we can absolutely find you work in your trade." Took 20 years for him to find work as a millwright. He would even get turned down for lesser paying jobs. "You're overqualified." The first twenty years in Canada was very rough.
My wife and I found an answer to Canadian housing affordability. We moved from Vancouver to Norway in 1980.
My uncle had a university degree in construction engineering from eastern europe as well.  Even with 5 children he went back to university to get his master's in the field and still couldn't find a job in his field and he's a very smart man.  Had to move to the U.S. along with his family and start anew in computer related field.
 @Saujas  if I'm not mistaken No degree is valid across the world!?
 @GeorgeFares-kk6mc  exactly! Canada is no worse, in fact I wholeheartedly feel it is way better
 @TodAufDerFlutch  life in Canada right now is as good as it was 20/30/40 years ago!
@joevarga5982 It's the same. I met a Nigerian janitor in America. She said she a nurse in Nigeria. Asked her why not take courses to get certified in America. She said she made more in America as a janitor and she didn't want to pay for certification. I still can't wrap my head around that. There's a lot of immigrants here like that. I would rather work as a nurse.
 @mikephillips2984 The level is not the same. Nurses from the UK and Philippines have a difficult time passing the Canadian and American RN exams.
@alexchaharnyi8640  Ранiше так писали i говорили. I нечемно тикати та робити зауваження незнайомим людям. 😁
Similar experience. Came under the skilled worker program, having a degree in business, a background in engineering and tech, with a ton of international experience, fluent in English and ended up working in whatever I could find. I got the "but you don't have canadian experience". It's not like you can pack up and leave once you're halfway across the globe. After almost  15 years here, I've managed to survive, but I was catfished. I love this country, and would have probably made the same choice had I known, but it would have been nice to know.
the idea is, stop applying job where 400 other applicants cramping to get the same job you do. go for trade skill job where 20 employers cramping to get an employee.
 @PrairieCossack  No Manitoba is better.  I don't see the changes this video is referring to.  Also Calgary is too high up, the air is 2 psi less than in Manitoba and you will get a headache.  I am not sure about Edmonton, they are lower down. I went to Calgary the first time in my life at 63 years old and noticed the difference in air pressure.  Sounds travel differently also.  Not as bad as Denver but too high.  You also risk more strokes at that height.
I took electrical engineering in Manitoba 6 years and didn't really like it.  I went on CNrail instead as a conductor and it paid more money than an engineer.  My friend finished EE and also worked at CN as an electrical engineer and the conductor job paid a lot more.  In 2018 I retired and worked only 6 months that year and made $118,000.   B.C is a very expensive province.  Southern Ontario is bad also. Avoid these two places.
It was the same shit 25 years ago. Come over we need your skills and then your degree not good and you need Canadian experience to get a job.
the problem is usually the order of engineer scared of their job being stole so they make it very difficult or almost impossible to pêople from abroad to get the job... its the same for almost all job that are highly specialized or need a degree, healthcare ect. Even if technically the education you received is almost the same.
 @tyronejv  i know we need people in almost every field but some people dont want their jobs to be stolen!!! its the same for almost every highly specialized jobs.
I'm so sorry that happened to you. I worked with a young immigrant who came into our country legally, she was a veterinarian in her home country, but couldn't get certified in California. She had to work as a vet tech the red of her working days. Something must be done.
That is legitimately absurd. If anything, higher education behind the iron curtain was of higher quality than in the west. I would understand if you had a degree from somewhere in the the developing world, but I think those people with questionable degrees from low-grade unis are the ones they are not putting hoops up for.   This is stupid.
 @igorpro8462  The way you do it, is find a Oil Company who has operated in Ukraine or the former USSR and knows that your degree and engineering skills are worth the position, by starting as a trade worker in maintenance for example.
​ @PrairieCossack AB is even worse! During three years I had to write APEGGA examinations before being eventually recognized PEng!
​@igorpro8462  yes, it's still Canada, however different rules apply for different peps, i.e., engineers brought by engineering firms from India didn't have to do anything and were employed in their profession, maybe for a tad lower pay however with all the living expenses covered ... just saying...
Did you not do any research before coming to canada? Did you not check to see if your degrees were compatible? Did you research jobs, housing, schools, cost of living? Did you take a trip here beforehand to scope out job opportunities and even better, have one lined up? If the answer is no, then you failed yourself.   When my parents immigrated, they had to have a sponsor that was 100% financially liable for them. They needed proof that they had a job AND a place to live. If they didnt have those, they couldnt come to Canada. They had all their ducks in a row, and they took the initiative to learn English before coming too.   Standards are different country to country. Would you want a structural engineer from a 3rd world country, where building topple over on a daily basis, to just be handed a job here were there are strict building codes? Hell no. A doctor is some remote country that still uses a saw to amputate limbs, does that qualify them to practice here?   Some degrees are transferable,  some are not. But the onus is on the individual to research BEFORE coming. I have zero sympathy for any international student or immigrant that comes here without doing their homework, and then complains that they can't find or afford housing  food, a job. Doctors driving a taxi, should have figured it all out before coming here.
​ @Saujas because each province had multiple different bodies who represent the professionals across each province i.e. Engineers, doctors, biologists. Each one of these bodies is set up to protect locally trained professionals, set ethical standards and ensure education so these fields aren't filled with poorly educated people be they locals or foreigners. Sadly for foreigners, these bodies make it difficult to prove your skills so that locals don't get price undercut. It's a dirty game and one that might see some changes here in the next few years. Good luck out there.
 @Saujas  what degrees are valid across the world?  I have not heard of any.
@brianaguair3928  I'm home. It doesn't change the fact how newcomers are treated by the officials here. They invite heart surgeons to drive cabs and serve tables. At least they could be honest about it before people cross the border
@samg8012  I believed the government of Canada, first. They wanted me as an engineer,  and it was the deal. The second, I had no financial nor legal opportunity to visit Canada beforehand. And the third, I started the process before the internet. So? One can't swim before one gets into the water.
Yeah... That's a damning indictment of the system from 23 years ago.    While it's not great, there have been plenty of advocates and efforts to improve on those old systems.  I remember always running into professionals when taking Taxis during my Uni days.
Had a coworker at Walmart that was an electrician in India. Took him 4 years and several attempts to become certified in Canada. But he did it ✌️❤️
So did you come from Ukraine like the second they split off from Russia or something
Exemplifies what I think is a key issue in Canada right now; regulatory hoops.
 @Saujas  because its ukrane and not england france or any western eu nation
 @PrairieCossack the guy is retired buddy,what are you   talking bout
This is what’s happening to many healthcare professionals. When there’s a need for doctors
My dad moved here in 1996 from Ukraine. And he had to have 150K in his account, to qualify here with his family. He’s an engineer and my step mom is one of the best computer programmers in whole of Canada. They struggled for the first 3-4 years. And worked for the company for 26 years and got laid off, a few years back, cause they found someone younger, immigrant, that they cut the guys pay in half, compare my dad’s. And nothing he could do. Welcome to fakin Trudeau’s Canada.
 @mikephillips2984  About what ?  Calgary altitude ?   On planes the PSI is about 10.  You get dehydrated and maybe a headache.   Once you live in Calgary for a few months you get more blood to compensate for the low air pressure.   But the incidences of stroke are higher.  My cousin just died of a stroke in Calgary.   When you go on your tropical vacation , the weather seems great. for two reasons.   It is nice and hot and humid but the air pressure is higher as sea level and you get more oxygen in your blood.  You can check the air pressure in many cities but there are two measures, the station pressure and the relative pressure.  You need the absolute pressure which is the station pressure.  This is hard to find on the internet for some reason, I don't know.  But planes need to know this to land properly in the thin air.
I know a trauma doctor who trained in Chicago, who's now selling cell phones 🙄 And a pharmacist running a deli. How ridiculous is it that we have qualified people who aren't allowed to do the things we let them into the country to do, at a time when we have a serious deficit in those trades? It's a miscarriage of sanity.
The only way to really qualify your education would be to compare it to ours, they should offer you a test of equivalency to see where you stand to make it easier, but at the same time. I would not expect it to ever be 1 for 1 and sorry but you're not born here, so you're problems to me are less important.
Because higher education is in cahoots with the government, they love immigrants who have to re-train, makes loads of debt on the backs of struggling newcommers, and the banks loving it.
i came in 2007, Piping and Structural Steel Designer, After working for a few years as a contractor, I became a landscaper, and I am now laying sod, pavers, and artificial turf. The irony is went to such heights like We are the engineer on record for Medicine Hospital extension building, but overnight things are lost in Canada simply because the politics change? ordinary people's lives should not change so drastically by political changes, and if it does happens, you are not a good country and no different to the third worlds.
Moncton must have the highest percentage of immigrants. It's like driving in bangladesh now. I've spend over $430 on groceries 2 weeks in a row on economy food for a family of 4.
 @m_s_5750  It's easier today than 100 years ago to return home if life is so difficult. Governments wouldn't need migrant professionals or tradespeople if they spent money educating the locals. Today Western nations live in a Ponzi system, they just need larger populations of consumers and spenders to pay for their past debts.
@Islandwaterjet  Immigration is a big challenge as is. Try to move from Saskatchewan to Montreal. I bet you would not like it. But! when a Mayor of Montreal tells you that you are guaranteed a job as a dentist, but instead after you arrive, they tell you that you are not even qualified to mop a floor in the dentist's office because you don't have Montreal work experience. Forget about your degree
French-born, in 2004 I tried to migrate to Canada after 12 years residency in the  USA.  I was told no, "you are coming here to enjoy our Social Security" 2004, I was 41, good-looking, non-smoker, non-drinker.  2024, Canada is today a sh|th0l3, I am glad to learn that :))
 @m_s_5750 it is stupid hard hard is it to revalidate in Canada especially as doctor or engineer but all people are hard working in Canada it’s just stupid that government makes it so hard to get job and take forever to build thifns
Western countries are not doing immigration well. I met an Iranian Civil engineer who came to NZ. He couldn't get a job. The govt encouraged him to get a masters. He did. It didn't help. Now, he's in debt, still working as a taxi driver, and he wants to return to Iran, but his kids are now kiwis.
I was in a similar position when I immigrated here. I had just finished my certification in thr US to become a pharmacy technician. I came to Canada and they basically told me it was worthless and I'd have to go back to school. I switched career paths and took up banking instead.
That's really common here. I won't say their degrees are bad, but they're definitely not better than everywhere else. But they just force you to get equivalent diplomas or formation here, it cost a lot and you end up following classes where you would have a lot to teach the teacher... It's just crazy and disrespectful...
 @m_s_5750 I agree, the bureaucracy is insane, so sorry to hear these stories. My grandparents were lucky came before the bureaucrats.
I'm from Canada, Alberta specifically, and graduated as a Mechanical Engineering Technologist in 2007. The economy crashed, I did AutoCAD for 3 years bored out of my skull, jobs never came back and now I've been driving a truck for 13 years... The lies didn't help me either. This country is broken.
My family was fed that lie too 30 years ago. The fact that this problem hasn’t been fixed is a joke.
The government will do everything it can to keep real estate prices inflated regardless of which party is elected. This is because higher property prices = higher property taxes = higher revenues for the government
 @Djsgah18369  The Ukraine is grammatically correct.  You  need the lesson.
Tell me about it, i'm a skilled welder and got turned around last week applying as a manoeuver (cleaning and maintaining equipement, trash, floors, scraps etc...) IN A WELDING WORKSHOP.... I was born in Canada, from canadian parents.
 @TodAufDerFlutch  Bro, i'm Canadian with 3 degrees and 2 specialization in my field and can't get a job. Even one that has nothing to do with my degrees. Even basic entry jobs that have a link to what i studied and practiced for a decade now. They only recruit at minimum wage in places that paid 10$ higher 10 years ago. It's madness. You don't need to apologize, you need to revolt.
I agree with you about the professional bodies making it very hard to become a certified engineer in Canada - (it also applies to other professions governed by professional bodies). I find this deplorable as it seems to me to be a case of producing red tape totally unnecessarily.
​ @Saujas  cause often they suck, thats why :D In some places you can just buy them cheaply, not to say that there are no professionals, that would be bs, but you need to have a check-mechanism for this. Maybe a faster/softer one, that doesn't force people to change fields
So….here is an interesting phenomenon, about North America (I’m US American). I assume that you LOVE engineering, thats why you worked so hard for a degree.  And, anywhere else in the world, it makes sense that you’d be working in engineering.  But North America is a phenomenon, when it comes to “labor”, in that …most of the world find what they love, and then make a living at it. But in North America (The US and Canada, at least) people tend to do something that they hate, to make money….and then use the money, to do, what they love.  This phenomenon was actually brought to my attention by a comedian named Jimmy O. Yang.  And although he presented the idea, as a JOKE.    It turns out that he is 100% correct.  The majority of people in North America, don’t get to DO what they studied in college. I was a computer science major, in the 80’s.   I ended up owning and operating a boutique hotel, for 30 years…..I NEVER had a job, in computing. And most of my friends never worked in their field of study. 🤷‍♂️🤷‍♂️🤷‍♂️. My advice is…Do what you have to do, to make ends meet…..and start a youtube channel about mechanical engineering, or build a little inventors lab, in your basement, so that you can still do what you love.  The reason that this occurs here, is because, for instance, in America alone, 40,000 kids graduate every year, with a degree in mechanical engineering…..but we don’t create 40,000 new mechanical engineering jobs, for them 🤷‍♂️, and we end up with this practice of  “doing what we hate ( not necessarily what we hate, but simply not what we love)to make money, so we can use the money, to do what we love.”
​ @Saujas Its only to protect the value of degrees of local universities, like a monopoly that beat its competitors by burning their building instead of pushing a better product
Did you  expected to get the job in your field directly at the airport? I immigrated in 1999, spent 2 years improving my English and worked part time as a cashier. Then after 2 years, I found a job in my trade and I accepted a minimum wage. At the time $7 an hour and McDonald was paying $7.5. In 3 months after probation I was at $10, after a year at $15, and now I am at $60/h. You need to be patient and prepare to prove yourself.
@zli7616  You can't prove yourself without a valid degree, and in my case, I could not validate it, period. One guy offered me a position in the engineering firm for 20 bucks per hour, but after they fire you, you are still nobody, plus I was already making twice as much installing cabinets.
 @shm6273  Depends on the country you come from.  A heavily corrupt country like Ukraine that isn't even part of our alliance.. yeah its gonna be more difficult.
 @acharat6 funny how Quebec would do that when other professionals are not recognized in Quebec.  Besides Quebec, misunderstanding stood the natives that were yelling “go back”. But the French thought they were saying Quebec.
 @jennifermarlow.  not correct, canada put regulations in place to protect the population to ensure immigrants are qualified to Canadian standards.  It sucks, but can you imagine the public back lashing out against the government for not ensure proper qualifications.  Sucks but it works
 @Agent-mb1xx  well said, as a veteran there would be no hope in hell that I would abandon my canada if it was attacked… I would fight from a 4 wheeled scooter if need be to protect my country.  By ancestors came from Ukraine in 1905.  They left because of the war developing there.
And that is an issue from the BC engineers society and the provincial government regulation
@ but it is a standard requirement to be at or higher than our Standards.  This is in place to protect Canadians.  Like it or not it’s a dam good way to protect us.
Exactly we wanted skilled labor but had no good methods of just taking the skilled labor.
I agree we. Example we need more Doctors. We have Doctors imagrate but do not provide enough pathways for these people to prove their qualifications and allow them to become certified.   This is true of most professions.  So these people end up in lower skilled jobs.
Professionals can't even move to another province without renewing their license in the new province with all kinds of regulations. Basically need to be reeducated for each province
oh boohoo... they're cab drivers who are doctors in their home country. Land of opportunity somehow is misconstrue to land of handouts.
My husband and  I wanted to migrate to Canada from New Zealand in the late 90's. We found out it was going to cost a non refundable 20K to see if we were even eligible to apply for residency. So we moved to Australia instead. When we applied to migrate to Australia, took a year to find out we could and how much did it cost?. The price of an Airline ticket.
@stretchstrange  How is getting a work in according to your qualifications is a handout? We are not illegals asking for a free ride.
 @igorpro8462  you want to jump lanes into another persons house and eat his cake because ur a cake eater in ur home? Sounds like an expectation which you wish was handed to you. A lie you believed so much to be true.
@stretchstrange  Imagine, you are building a house, and put an ad that you need framers, plumbers, electricians, etc. And when the whole bunch of guys showed up, you say no, I'll do all that stuff myself, but you can start unloading trucks and dig tranches and deal with garbage. Who is eating the cake here?
 @igorpro8462  uhhh literally everyone is eating. The builder who sold you the cake lie and you ate it. the people who needed the trash to be picked up. And even you who now is STILL living here picking up trash. Ur cake is small and you wanted it big. Thats okay. You lost.
 @igorpro8462  Or did you win cuz ur kids are here with a new shot? Its almost like its not a hand out and only an opportunity.
 @igorpro8462    Slava UKRAINA Brother....My Ukie parents came to Canada in the Mid 1950's from the still bombed out Germany.
Similar thing for my mom, Canadian engineering society wouldn't accept her degree and she had a teenager (me) to feed. So much for her skills too. She was accepted by the country for her skills but forced into accepting less than she could contribute by the professional body. It was very disappointing, but we also couldn't afford to go back home, so forward we trod, and in some ways it's still never really been worth it
 @Saujas  its degrees from 95% of the countries around the world, not specifically Ukrainian
 @PrairieCossack  Food in AB is more expensive than BC, car insurance in AB is more than BC plus you have shit weather.
Your first mistake is being Ukranian. If you were from india you'd have people throwing certifications at you no questions
Canada has NEVER been about skills, but skin-colour. I went for a training course once, others got a hotel room, I got to sleep in the floor of the trainer's house  - so much for equality for all!!!
The problem with all the hoops you had to go through is because you werent an indian student ready to work at timhortons
Canada is immensely over regulated and red taped in every aspect of the economy. This serves only one purpose: to maintain the bureaucratic apparatus of the federal public sector.
I am so sorry that you went through all that BS!! False advertising should be illegal!!
Language is number one barrier for any immigrant. If you can't speak it and write in it proficiently, further about any white collar jobs.       If you can't speak the language and you have a family to feed you'll take what you can, and get stuck. It just a lot harder to swallow reality when you were a  professional back at home.
​ @Existence-zy4gb dollar to uah doesn't matter. That's not an indication how well a country's economy is running. In the 1990s it Ukraine went through hyperinflation and resetting the uah didn't suddenly fix the economy. There was to much red tape to start a business in Ukraine,  and those who were already in power controlled everything up until late 2010s.
Muahaha. You never heard about Canadian engineer steel ring? Oops, you had to learn it hard way.
 @joevarga5982  There are 2 usual possible paths to legal permanent residency, family sponsorship or H1B besides humanitarian path (i.e. refugees etc).  They require sponsors basically.
Ukrainian, degree in economics, came in this year, working in construction and thinking of switching to carpentry :)
​@CJZ964,, education is tight,  rules and regulations are  strict  in the USA we don't accept most nurses from a round the  world.....we are serious about  our licenses
It's the same story for almost every immigrants, I got bachelor degree in computer science,  and I have to work as a house mover when I came, then go through BCIT to get a local certificate then I can work in telco. You know why canada temped to waiste immigrant's skill? it's all about money, those college are Huge business. Have you see the developing of Langara college? when 1997 My first time in Vancouver, it's a small community college with only a few low building, now how many new tall building they got? that's how wealthy they are.  The biggest industrial in Canada is not lumber, mining or anything else, it's immigration! that's how canada got hot cash flow in and treat it as granted. All the business surrounding it get big profit.  but the cost of school, medical, transportation and living goes high as an outcome, it become tax payer's cost, not those businesses.
 @m_s_5750  i know a practice paediatrician who went back to india.. and couple of others who are working the floor in supermarkets 😞
 @carolweideman1905  the problem is ircc accepts it to get you into the country.. but once here, the hiring is a different story..
Same story... Mechanical engineer... I returned to Europe and now I'm a manager over 2 continents and making more money than ever. Canada considered me a second hand worker while here they hunt me for jobs.
I agree, this is the real problem, the Trudue's solution to kill issues canada faced was not wrong but his approach to the problem wasn't' right. If you needed healthcare and construction workers he could only  allow them to come on a work permit rather than bringing so many useless students (instead creating a huge burden on the economy for years, later they never chose to be a construction worker 😂) plus the Canadian government never understood if you need construction workers, skilled workers, you didn't have to get them stuck in stupid certifications when they already have a proved experience abroad.
 @Saujas  they are not validated from almost all countries in engineering, architecture, medicine etc.
 @eustacemcgoodboy9702 My kid is interested in becoming an American doctor. Looking at the time and cost involved, a low 6 figure salary is definitely not worth it. There are much easier ways to get a low 6 figure salary than spending over a decade paying college and med school while doing so much studying that you can't really hold down a decent paying job and then getting paid shit for years of internship and residency.
Surprised to know that Ukraine University Degrees are not recognized in Canada Feel bad for the Foreign students who studied in Ukraine Universities & are seeking employment
​ @MsLinda165  Not always true. There  are African  doctors practising in Atlantic Canada after passing their Medical board exams.  Competent and experienced. Hopefully will help to address the long queues in clinics and hospitals.
it's funny, i don't see any asians or indians struggling that badly. what's really going on? you need wealth to make wealth, sadly, in today's world. "something for nothing" doesn't exist anymore.
Could have moved back. But here you are. By the way Ukrainians are in Ukraine. Outside of it we are just hohols. 😂
My family emigrated to Canada from the Balkans in the early 1990's and now my family is moving to Serbia as things are better there. If you ever consider moving back to Europe, there are places in Eastern Europe such as the Balkans that are great options. If you have lived and worked in Canada for a minimum of 20 years, you would be able to receive your Canadian CPP and Old Age Security from Europe and these amounts along would allow to to live a very comfortable life as the costs of living a much lower in Europe then they are here
 @ontheroad5555  The problem with degrees from abroad is that the standards are SIGNIFICANTLY worse.  I mean the level of competency is so wide.  People need to understand both sides of the situation.  How can the government award medical certification if they've found incompetency in the past?
 @igorpro8462  Did you consider teaching? Engineering or Carpentry are both viable learning options. Personally, l wish l could gain some carpentry/cabinetmaking skills. I took a course with my young son years ago, and it was great.
Sad. In the U.S. you would have retired a millionaire making $200k US easily as an engineer.
 @blacklightretro  One reason for Asians (Indians included) not struggling is  their University Degrees are recognised in Canada making it possible for them to get jobs in line with their qualifications Also, many of them have relatives in Canada who take care of them in times of needs
THE Ukraine is from before 1991, right? It was Russia then.
 @showwhite7320  someone wrote that even if one has a medical degree from Germany they encounter the same problem in Canada. Germany does not come across as having significantly worse standards.
@mylhouse0887  Exactly. One goes to the Opera and ends up in the circus instead.
The same thing happens to multi-generational Canadians as myself.  I don't even live in Canada anymore, and I'm afraid of visiting because I won't be able to afford anything.  There's no way I could ever afford a home in my hometown.  Even renting a bachelor apartment is beyond my means.  Employers don't care about skills that much.  Whatever fits in with their short-term plans for profit is what they focus on.
My cousin was born in the Phillipines & graduated from Singapore’s top medical school. When she got here she realized how many hurdles there were & that her nursing degree was pretty much useless. As Alberta goes through a nursing crisis my cousin who graduated from one of the best medical schools in the world is working at Tim Hortons because of public red tape. It’s beyond stupid to me that no one in the provincial or federal-level government seems to notice there’s a disconnect between what immigrants the provinces want & what the federal government wants
@walterrumohr7090  No, it has nothing to do with Britain's aristocracy.   BC'rs have always been insular and resent outsiders who move to BC and take jobs from those "born and bred in BC".   When I lived in BC, despite being Canadian, I encountered this xenophobia myself.   Canada has a lot of socialist government policies.   Tech companies in BC quite often get generous government grants.   Those grants might come with strings attached, eg: hire local university grads.  I do know in many cases professors from UBC or SFU have part-time jobs advising tech startups and also serve on committees that determine which companies get gov't grants.   So they can exert their influence for companies to hire their grads.   I don't know how much things have changed in the 30 years since I left BC, but when I was struggling to find decent work in BC, people would say a company was a "UBC company"  or an "SFU  company", meaning the engineers either came from UBC or SFU.  So the available work for engineers was apportioned to SFU grads and UBC grads.   There was no third option.   Several times managers would ask me to come in to advise their engineers on how to solve a tricky problem they had.   Those interviews never led to a job offer.
 @TodAufDerFlutch too much politics involved. Newcomers unfortunately like some ppl have stated degrees etc not recognized due to educational system differences. The world is a lot different now then many years ago when Canadians were sponsoring Europeans to come over by the thousands.
@Saujas  Well there are regional differences one must know in many fields of work. But it shouldn't be made this hard. You shouldn't treat them as if all their knowledge is useless just because they learnt their profession in a different country. Many parts are universal.
 @acharat6  1534 ? montreal was only established in 1642. My family actually came here from France in 1689 and we have one of the 71 crypts in the cimetiere  notre-dame-des-neiges (largest burial ground in north America) ... not even quebec city was established in 1534, the only way what you are saying could be true is if your ancestors was on the same boat as jacque carrier himself, that would be a bold claim friend..
Mate I'd go to the ends of the earth to prove I had a mech eng degree instead of being a car washer or carpenter. I'd advocate you didn't have the degree.
Many local jobs are run like fiefdoms. Either you have connections or you do not. Most jobs are advertised due to regulations but are given to the minimally qualified and often not even qualified  connected friend.
All my friends from Canada (we grew up there) left for better jobs overseas - US, UK, Asia. Canada was always a dead end of moving up unless you are an insider and play the union games.
 @igorpro8462  in THE Ukraine? do you mean as part of russia? you don't say the Canada, do you? why would you say the Ukraine?
@LxFreemanU  Why would you say the US? It is what it is, I don't know
It was possible, you could have got a student loan with ease, like millions of others in school.  Nice story though.
I don't know if am I angry or sad!!! All should be back and help their own countries...
 @sarcomakaposi2054  But the cartels control the federal government, so how could one, especially a foreigner, expect security and justice in such a place?
You’re right. That’s why we moved to US because it’s seems impossible for us to get my wife career job and ours. It’s a good decision and a game changer. I hope the future administration can fixed this.
 @CJZ964 why would you uproot your entire life, impacting your family…sounds selfish.
Same thing happened to my father. He ended up on welfare and working jobs under the table to make up for the income gap, because you can’t raise three kids while living off of welfare. He came here to work, and ended up being shunned for costing taxpayer money. He was depressed the entire short eight years he got to live here before dying of cancer at age 50. And that cancer might not have happened had he not been subjected to the stress of being a father of three while not managing to make rent and working illegally, and the feelings of guilt and shame that resulted from that, and the worry for his kids and their future. The famous opportunity we were told Canada was giving us was nothing but a mirage. My siblings and I all struggle still, none of us ever managed to get higher education or to buy property even in the previous buyer’s market, because instead of being allowed to be teenagers and being taken care of by our parents, we had to parent our own parents who were going crazy from being treated like cattle by an immigration system that is destructive to both Canada and the countries the immigrants come from, which are robbed of their skilled workers so they can become car wash workers. I know I will never get to retire. I will die from working when I am unable to work anymore.
Fellow Ukrainian immigrant, but back in the 90s. My mom was a single mother who had to go back to school since they would not accept her degree either for jobs, and managed to do so while single-handily raising a small child. They wouldn’t take my uncles engineering degree either when he came over years later, so he worked at Costco till he was able to secure any kind of IT job. So no offense, but yall just lazy. Teens don’t need anyone to watch them, these are excuses.
 @carolweideman1905 Does it make any logical sense to you to do your own research when the immigration system tells you that you are allowed in BECAUSE of your skills and diplomas?
 @acharat6 Yeah, no. We came to Montreal in 1990. My father ended up having to pay rent with a welfare cheque and feeding the three kids he brought with money earned through illegal crap manual labour paid under the table, while my mom worked another illegal job full time, and STILL it was poverty because working under the table means there is no minimum wage. I started working at $3 per hour at age fifteen when minimum wage was about $6.50. He dared to take us here because the points system lied and said he can come because of his engineer diplomas. We were worse off than where we came from. He was also discriminated against because of his accent, no one wanted to hire him when looking for a "real" job.   I really don’t see why Montreal would be easier, it’s the same laws and regulations, and being your “brother” for speaking a few words of French doesn’t somehow do away with discrimination, put a roof over your head and food on the table.
 @Saujas  Because they are not worth the paper they are printed on. To become an engineer in Ukraine all you need is the correct amount of bribe to the right persons. A diploma from Ukraine has the same value has a diploma from Somalia.
 @cookiemonster6401 Saskatchewan has huge labour shortages for unskilled labour. They will accept anyone—and only allow you to become cheap labour. They are not looking for engineers and doctors, not even for salespeople or clerks—they want farmhands. Same s#it, different province.   It’s the federal government that handles residence permits anyway, and they are the ones that lie about your diploma being worth anything at all.
@Matias_L  Teens needed a place to stay and food on their tables while they were getting their degrees. Plus, working 12 hours days sometimes six days a week in construction for four straight years without any vacation time, I can't call it lazy.
 @ontheroad5555 How is your Quebec bashing any kind of relevant to this discussion? You obviously aren’t from Quebec and have no idea why those truckers refused to say they are Canadian. You are not the one made to feel like a foreigner within your own nation and territory and forced to live in a foreign language to be able to make rent. I bet your border agent friend speaks no French whatsoever even though federal law requires her to. Easy to victim blame when you have the privilege they never had.
 @igorpro8462 You do realize this is an entirely political video, and that your request not to get into politics here is utterly ridiculous, right?
 @Shadowaspen Yeah, no. Your experience is the rare one. You don’t get to victim blame those who were made to come here to become cheap labour through lying to them just because you somehow managed to do better. To begin with, you came here alone. Most immigrants come with kids. You try building your business when you have several other people to feed and can’t manage even that.
@Gomba13  nice that you know how easy I had it.. next you tell me I have white privilege?
You can’t loosen immigration while maintaining rigid regulations, licensure, and state benefits. Either you go truly free market capitalism for everything and allow people to adapt, keep things closed and comfortable, or devolve into the worst of both worlds.
@Gomba13  There're political issues that are resolved by talking, and there're ones that are not. People have different understanding of what is going on in Eastern Europe now, but it has nothing to do with the topic of this video. So, let's stay clear of it.
 @mikephillips2984 Of course a foreign degree isn’t worth as much as a Canadian one: no Canadian university was paid to grant it, no money was made in Canada by granting it. Why would they let you work as a doctor for free when those who got their education in Canada paid hundreds of thousands of dollars into the Canadian system for the same?   A medical degree is a medical degree, no matter where you got it. Last I heard, Ukrainians don't have a different biology than Canadians, they catch the same diseases, are diagnosed using the same criteria and need the same treatments. The only difference is the legal aspects of their work, and that is something a single course over a single session could fix.  If I were travelling in Ukraine and had a medical emergency, I don't see why I wouldn't trust a Ukrainian doctor.
 @MsLinda165 It doesn’t matter how Canada compares to other countries, you are just trying to kick the can further down the road. It’s like saying “you should be fine with our crappy workers compensation rights because some other countries have no workers compensation rights.”   Other countries don’t lie about whether your degree is going to be valid. Other countries don’t pretend to want you because of your diplomas only to tell you after you land that your degrees are worthless.
 @SMGJohn As if it were as easy to immigrate to Norway as it is to immigrate to Canada. I think maybe you should stop telling people they shot themselves in the foot by immigrating to Canada when you have no clue how the Canadian immigration system compares to yours.
@SerbiAna47  This is what I would like to keep outside of the discussion because this topic is extremely hot and can bring a lot of hatred into the conversation. Not that many people are capable  of controlling their emotions
 @bhagsunath  immigration and temporary workers bring about 2 different levels of income for the same position.  Theres a reason most of the fast food chains have temporary or contract workers.
 @eustacemcgoodboy9702  Is that so? My Masters (from UK) was not recognised and I had to take Canadian Civil Aviation pilot exams to fly here. As it turned out, they were a joke compared to the UK.
Foreign accreditation NOT being recognized is a generic issue in virtually every field, and throughout the world. It's a huge burden for an employer to scrutinize foreign credentials. It's also quite a workload to "fast-track" a foreigner inside an accreditation program, since it's not simply about pure knowledge, but rather standards, practices, cultural awareness and other ephemeral things learned throughout the schooling. In other words, it's not such an easy thing to just say "a certificate is a certificate - it doesn't matter where it came from."
Because every country has different standards.   And vetting out these skills is important.  If my electrician husband went to another country he would run into the same problem.  Canada can't just allow anyone to waltz in without testing to see if the skill levels our safety standards.   What exactly did you expect
I have a electronics engineering technician degree which I've not used beyond repairing computers and cellphones. I've been disillusioned with the country I've been born into.
@philippelescarbeau7082  New France was an official colony of France from 1535.  There were temporary settlements until the foundation of Quebec City in 1608. My point is our people were amongst the first settlers in America and deserve respect.
 @igorpro8462  carpenters or engineers don’t buy properties where the money is
I worked in social housing professionally;  your story is one I heard over and over again.  I am so sorry that our Liberal government lied to you.
Nothing against you or your wife, but no one needed your skills. We need our corrupt leaders and their rich friends to pay living wages and stop raising costs for their own profits. What we don't need are further drains on what resources are for Canadians, while also providing a peasant class that can be hired instead of paying fair wages to the citizens of this country.
​@MsLinda165 You actually missed the point. The Canada govt is bringing in skilled immigrants. Keyword is "skilled". It means the govt sees these immigrants as skilled enough in their chosen profession.  How come when they get to Canada, the same people who were regarded as being skilled can't work in their skilled profession in canada.?  And why use African trained doctors in your example? 😅
 @MrEvanmcneilage  As a fresh new immigrant, I see this differently. The major problem is not only the bureaucracy, to be honest, the processing time for different government services is not that inefficient except for the cases in IRCC. The government just did not provide enough support and plans for the high-end company development (not the real estate developer) which can generate a sustainable huge amount of economic growth, but inviting the skilled technicians to compete for the position that does not require their expertise is kinda absurd. I know some of my friends from Hong Kong hold top tier degree, medical laboratory technician or registered nurse license in Hong Kong, but it still requires a long path or re-education to practice in Canada. It is understandable to make sure the foreign workers are qualified with the working standards in Canada, but it could be a qualification test or practical examination rather the entire program as the government is seeking skilled workers around the world to relieve the overload in the medical system. The key to the problem should be supporting different types of businesses, especially high-end companies which not only provide more positions for locals but also able to utilize the skilled immigrants already living in Canada to promote the economic growth to address the concern of high retirement in the future. I am lucky that I can find a position in drug research and development quickly and I believe many newcomers with skills and techniques are really willing to contribute to this country with our knowledge but not compete for less-skilled positions and this is also why the immigration system is merit-based at very first because that's how to make sure the immigrants are capable to make contribution but not only seeking for benefit and social care.
​@mikephillips2984 Don't make me laugh. Ukrainian medical degree (as well as Russian and Belorussian and Latvian and Estonian and Lithuanian) is as good as US one as long as it was received before ~1995 (cause after that corruption affected quality of education in those countries badly). The same applies to engineering degrees. A real threat is thousands of tradies and engineers and doctors from 3rd world countries that hardly have any understanding of the subjects.
​ @olena_goldmanns Communist party has never been a ruling party in Argentina. So, go and blame whoever you want but not commies.
 @Gomba13  you sound uninformed and maybe ignorant. What I said is relevant to this discussion because Quebec is mentioned. Also I was sent up there to work and I related what an agent said to me, not my friend. About being in a land where you have to speak a language that is not yours welcome to the club. So do the Basque and Catalan people in Spain. And several other groups living in European countries. You can call the entire video as Canada bashing yet you zoom in on what was  rightly said about truck drivers crossing the international border. That is how it is. Grow up already.
I work in Aerospace in the US. We’ve had engineers from overseas for decades. We did not accept degrees from the Phillipines due to corruption and a lack of rigor. I don’t know our rules, but I do know a lot of immigrants with degrees from foreign colleges.
All fast food restaurants in USA are occupied by workers  from Latin America, America kids can't get jobs and havd no job experience.
 @getlost3346  when I studied Logic in college we learned that "all" is an absolute word. One has to be careful using that word. Where I live in NYC I can tell you that the people I see working in fast food are not from Latin America. I was in Cane's last week the worker who called my name and gave me my order he did not give me any tissues. When I requested he told me there are tissues on the other side where the ketchup is located. He gave me some tissues. When I went to where the condiments are located to get some ketchup there were no tissues. I think he should have served me my food with tissues. Anyway his English and his look are not Latin American.
@andreypetrov4868  You would not be laughing reading the list of demands from the society I had to fulfill to have my USSR diploma verified. Don't know now, don't care anymore
 @Saujas  this happens for many foreign degrees not just Ukrainian ones. Heard a similar story from those who migrated from Asia too
depends on the type of degree. you shouldve been able to be a millrighjt in many places. i guess it depends on placement
​@MsLinda165  African trained doctor?!! You do know that Africa is a CONTINENT?!! How are you castigating an entire continent of hundreds of countries and wide ranges of different experiences related to standards?? Oh I know: racism.  And im not even from Africa or any of its countries. I just can't handle an ignorant statement meant to cast aspersions on a continent based solely on the melanin content of its residents.
The university and education system in Canada are snobs.  It needs to stop.  Foreign students pay double for tuition if not more and housing is nearly impossible for students out of Canada or even Canadian students.  I hear University of Windsor is in debt because of the cap on Foreign Students.  Serves them right to be so greedy.
@joanaffleck2455  Still, none of those people want to move into the real trades. There is a shortage of truck drivers, plumbers, electricians, painters. No, everyone wants to be an MBA. So, who is the doctor? There is demand, there is supply.
I went to Canada in 2006 with 3 degrees which were not acknowledged by any employer and therefore I was ‘under qualified’, but were accepted by a university to qualify me for a fourth degree 😂. After which I became ‘over qualified’ for any job I applied to and ended up returning to my home country.
That's what I did, even 20 years ago was the same trash
@suerome9718  25 years ago, only a mentally ill person could imagine anything like that
​ @jennifermarlow.  Why would you call it American exceptionalism? Don't blame us for the tribalism of all nations.
​ @Iluvbabaganush123 so the pay as a trucker was better than the pay as an unlicensed engineer working under a licensed engineer?  That says more about how engineering is valued than it does about protectionism.
​ @hellyeah7403 that's one interpretation.  The truth is educated people, are the ones who do the work, not some nebulous concept of a native country.  If that country doesn't reward merit, to hell with it.
The pay washing cars was better than the pay as an unlicensed engineer working under a licensed engineer?  That says more about how engineering is valued than it does about protectionism.
@michaelwoods1924  It's interesting how people who never  moved from one place to another in the same country talk about the values of the different occupations. The first thing any Canadian employer asks a new immigrant is Canadian experience. Do you know what it means? It means that the only company that can hire you is the company under the control of your countrymen. And they have to have an opening for you just when you need it. What are the chances? And they pay less than minimum wage. Don't like - go somewhere else
 @mikephillips2984 A colleague of mine is a Ukrainian University educated Dentist. He was fortunate Western School of Dentistry allowed him to do 4th year and get a Canadian DDS. While at Western, taught techniques to the professors. He graduated with a perfect 100% GPA. Ukrainian Universities put out good and bad graduates like any other university in the world.
This has always been an issue with our immigration. Source talent from around the globe only to grant them limited access if any to the field in which they excel. Leaving them in a position of sourcing entry level jobs that do not support financially to get you back to the career you came from.  You are not alone in your plight, many of my friends and their families that immigrated here from else where sold everything they had only to use that resource to keep themselves barely afloat here. I’m sorry our government failed you as it has failed everyone else in Canada.
Same exact thing happened to my dad who was a respected mechanical engineer. He still holds a grudge for coming
 @mikephillips2984  lol buddy you my dad was a mechanical engineer from syria who worked across europe and had 14 years experience in rail and they still didnt accept his degree. He is by far way more skilled than the average canadian engineer ive ever met. Stop being so narrow minded
Not the first time I heard that story. It affects doctors, nurses and a lot of other disciplines, too.
​ @MsLinda165 nurses in the Philippines are hard working and top notch. Their schooling is much more competitive and extreme then Canada or the US.
Same story with my family. Also came from Ukraine, immigrated to QC in late 2000s, both my parents were dentists. We landed through the skilled immigrant program, but I think at that time there wasn’t a process for dentists to even prove their degree. So we ended up going back to Ukraine after a couple of years up until the war started in 2022.
Exactly  that's why we have foreign doctors driving a taxi
mechanical engineer from the Ukraine~ hum.. maybe should come to China, we pay a lot of money and respect to those lots. but hey~ you got your freedom :D
My dad was an electrical engineer for 30 years in Dubai. After a 10-year long wait of applying as a skilled worker, we moved to Canada as a family, specifically Quebec. He ended up working in a chocolate factory.
 @Saujas it has nothing to do with Ukrainian degree! Only degree from us is counted in Canada but no ones gives a f if you got degrees from other countries. Sometimes degrees from USA is not counted too! Canada wants Canadian degrees
А я братику плачу за квартиру 60$ в Чернівецькій області, працюю віддаленно і заробляю 3800$. Ви поїхали з України нам більше квартир залишилося вільними. Страждайте і далі в своїх Канадах. Вас не шкода.
You should have come to the US - we love Eastern Europeans for their raw intelligence
You should have come to the US - we love Eastern Europeans for their raw intelligence
Same here, came to AB 17 years ago with a business degree and 25 years cabinetry on my back. Guess what I am doing? At least we were smart and didn't buy BS, paid our house off quick and bought a few rentals. Paying them off as well. Life can be good in Canada. Just coming now and starting from scratch seems hard.
As someone who graduated as a Mechanical Engineer in Canada. It was very difficult to make a good living, there are very few jobs and unless you go to a top school like Waterloo your chances of landing a good job is trash. There is a massive wage issue in Canada.
Living in Spain, I see Ukrainian millionaires every day. It seems they are doing very well.
@Clockworkg1rl  My cousin escaped to Poland in 1991, on the last Soviet train, as a political refugee. He said, 'It's so hard, it's so hard!' I decided to go to Canada.
 @igorpro8462  ну рад за вас. Успехов. Я первый раз в США приехал в 2005м будучи студентом и понял, что нет, "таджиком" быть я не хочу... Хотя это не мешает мне наездами получать там же пилотское образование.
 @eustacemcgoodboy9702 and i would trust that doctor more than anyone here in canada… i came here in grade 9 from europe, and those kids were way behind, and had no respect… and had no supplies for school, they were also ridiculously lazy… what a culture shock after having grown up in a school environment where you had to be prepared, always your homework done, greet your teachers.. unbelievable so yeah if i had to go back to europe, they would laugh at my high school diploma
@19ij  Thanks. Commercial pilot or for fun?  Honestly, it's better to be 'Tajik' in Canada than to ram the wall with your head back there. My children are not 'Tajiks', though, and this is what counts the most.
 @igorpro8462  подбираюсь к коммерческому. Если получится в 25м году добью. Мне во Владивостоке хорошо живется. Тут тоже есть свои проблемы, но взвешивая все + и - лучше жить дома, чем пытаться что-то в США, тем более что жене не понравилось. Мы там 4 месяца прожили в 23м пока инструментальный рейтинг получал.
@19ij  Don't even try to compare Russia with that place we left. If we stayed in Russia, I would probably not go anywhere, too.
That's where the major difference between the communist Canada and capitalist USA lies: bureaucracy ... In Canada paperwork is everything, in USA your job skills are first.  And btw, I'm also a mechanical engineer from Romania but I was fortunate enough to immigrate to the right place and be able to work in the field where I can use my education.
 @MsLinda165  I can tell you for sure that back in the days a university graduate from Eastern Europe had more knowledge than the average graduate from any university in Canada or USA, period!
 @PrairieCossack  Alberta sucksss especially if you don't have citizenship, we are so done with my husband we are moving to Peru lol
Protectionist barriers for skilled workers and burdensome standards and codes for building alternative housing are hidden issues that are not being addressed.
There's the problem right there. 22 years ago, it was 2002. Tech boom crash, 9/11, war in Middle East, rising rents, so much geopolitical turmoil. BC was transforming at such a rapid rate too. The condo boom by 2002 was in full swing by then. As a mechanical engineer, you saw how fast the buildings were going up all around the region. How many mechanical engineers do you think moved into BC looking for work?  The truth is, when the building boom was taking place in Toronto, applicants for those positions were fully occupied by the mid 80s. Look at the downtown core now, it's full of giant condo buildings.
handshake You remind me of my Russian Immigrant black car driver back in NY.  He was LITERALLY a rocket scientist. "I come here, i drive cab".
 @acharat6  I am an immigrant and living in Montreal for last two years. The tax is higher then other provinces, the salary is low compared to other provinces too. Its true that rent is less, but its going up rapidly. For immigrant like us who doesn't speak French, the provincial government isn't making our life easy. Everyday i am planning to move to an English province and i know i will. Its jus the job market is so tough right now.
Same with doctors and other professionals. They are trying to protect their jobs, as they think because they are university educated they are worth more and don’t fight the low minimum wage wages for labour. Engineers can be replaced by Indian engineers as they graduate 500,000 every year. 😂😂😂no one is immune
 @m_s_5750  The number of taxi drivers who were doctors in their home country and not allowed to practice in Canada is astonishing. And yet, we have a shortage of doctors in Canada. Its all so backwards. You're right, no one works harder than immigrants. I wish your family the best ❤
That was a century ago, we are talking about today jajaja😅
Not sure why you have such hard time using your native degree.  😮 My wife is from China with an engineering degree from Shanghai.  She immediately got a government job as an engineer and she is compensated well with great benefits.  Before she got her interview, she had to provide proof of her degree through a third-party.  We are in the US though.  She got her permanent resident status before she came.
Rather the devil you know so I'll stay in South Africa....❤❤❤❤
 @Saujas  my Ukrainian degree works in Asia and some European countries. But not in Canada. I use to work like electrical engineer in 5 countries but not here. I like Canada and all the people who welcome us here. But probably my family returned back to EU if we can't find skilled job.
@radiozvrk6784  I tried. But eventually, I came up to the conclusion that it's hopeless.
Yeah but it's a degree from a Ukrainian university... that was the issue
 @Saujas  It's not just Ukrainian degrees, but pretty much degrees from any developing country. Doctors, Engineers and Lawyers have a really tough time getting their degree recognized in the US as well. I am from Brazil and I live in the US and I see it happening all the time. Funny thing is that Americans cross the boarder to Mexico to go the doctor and to the dentist because they cannot afford prices in the US.
Respect. I have heard similar stories from other new immigrants. We may be living in postcolonial explotation 👎
Sorry, were you not free to leave at any time you so wished, since it wasn't what you banked on?
@antonmaslow1712  Did you notice that I left 22 years ago? But even then, I had a feeling that nothing good would ever come out of that place.
@22ergie  We cut all the ties with the Ukraine. There was nothing to return to
 @Saujas in some special spheres like medicine it’s not easy transfer but nowadays it’s very easy because of Bolonian system. Now in Ukraine we have European type diplomas which are recognised automatically. And that person came decades ago to Canada. But the question is nobody cares about diploma nowadays 😂
 @stanmarc8301 you can’t. You still need to visit university and negotiate every exam and etc. And it’s possible in local small or private unis. It’s not easy at all.   But you know that nobody nowadays cares about diploma, only your skills count
 @michaelwoods1924   For centuries, in vast bountiful North & South America, the motherland of Native American people, where the vast majority of the population, hundreds of millions of Europeans were from all over and every corner of Northern & Southern Europe brought in over to occupy the Native American lands.  Similarly, in the Asia-Pacific region, the vast majority of the population in Vast bountiful Australia & New Zealand, tens of millions of Europeans were from all over Europe brought in over to the Asia-Pacific, the motherland of Native Asian-Pacific people. 😔🤷
 @SydneySortsItOut  All they Native American people need is their beloved motherland back, the lands that their ancestors' forebears had lived through thick and thin, endured through hardships and all for tens of thousands of years. May I ask, why not let Native Americans have Europe, since Europeans have had both North/South America Continents already; a fair deal? Remember the saying, "You can't have your cake and eat it too" and "A man's gotta do, what a man's gotta do". 🤷
That's what I keep hearing from skilled immigrants. I think it's probably the local universities and tradeschools being greedy, trying to funnel foreign students into their classes. They make more money on foreign students than local ones.  I dated a woman from the Netherlands who was basically a resident careworker in her country. When she came here on a temporary work permit, she was cleaning the local airport to barely make ends meet living at her sister's place (who was luckily a permanent resident). She decided to not come back after her permit was mishandled and she was forced back home.
 @CJZ964  Yeah, there was a time I researched about migrating there as a health worker, and suprise, it required a lot of certifications that are obtained IN CANADA. So, how can it be done?
That’s odd, I have never in my life heard a Ukrainian refer to their country as “the Ukraine”
@tylergooden2183  I'm not Ukrainian, I was born in the USSR when it was the Ukraine. So, I call it that way.
Do you mean the Engineer's society of BC perpetrated obstructions and passive aggression?
There is a SOLUTION.  Leaving politics aside for a while, if that is even possible, one impressive way to 'turbocharge' the big landmass and its people, America and Canada, would be to wipe away the border which stunts progress, divides people and creates tension at times.   Elon or some other wealthy dude should be able to fork out some money to Canadian adults to make it happen since there are only about 30 mil. adults in the big land.   Canada has a shrinking GDP per capita, a weakening Canadian dollar, inflation issues, an increasing cost of living and housing crisis.  Some Canadians still think that they need a king ' hovering ' over them in these modern times who lives on a faraway island but what they really do need is lower taxes and a strong (American) military to protect the arctic.   On another note, just think of Canadians as well as people from other nations who have gone to America to seek their fame and fortune and have been successful.  A prime example would be S. African born Musk who spent three years in Canada, went south to America to seek his fame and fortune and is likely to become the world's first trillionaire.
@charlieangkor8649  Absolutely! Their list of demands to validate my diploma was absolutely not possible to satisfy for the foreigner coming from a non-English speaking country. Plus, that Canadian experience thing. Nobody hires without it, and no way to get it without being hired. It's a clear 'F.Y.' situation.
 @igorpro8462  That's sad, what about now? Just curious, as I am not far from Her border.
@22ergie  Now I'm good, my kids are good. Thinking about retiring somewhere south. Canadian pensions are a joke, if you are not a government employee
 @eustacemcgoodboy9702  Medical degrees from Oxford and Cambridge aren't recognized as well
I'm willing to bet also that your education in Ukraine was of a much higher level. People don't realize what's going on. Even though "the systems" are different in every single nation & those differences are the end result of people in power making decisions, everyone shrugs & thinks that some disembodied system is responsible for these things. This mental laziness is the only system in our way from improving things.
 @igorpro8462  Well, I wish you and your family all the best in your future endeavours. ~Laura
Ukrainian degrees are pretty much useless in Western countries, and for a reason. Studying in Canada or US is a must
@timofy2641  I have a USSR degree. I understand that it is useless in some way, but they could tell me from the start that I had to refresh my education based on the local standards. That's the problem. 'Come, engineers and doctors! We need a lot of highly-educated baristas and taxi drivers!'
 @igorpro8462  I am sorry to read this.  It is similar to my parents’ story.  They would have had an easier life, and would have been financially better of had they stayed in their country.  I wish you a healthy and happy retirement. ❤️
I've heard many stories like yours. That's the true problem of Canadian society. It seems open and diverse, but actually quite the contrary. Skilled immigrants (doctors, dentists, nurses, engineers, teachers) never get appropriate recognition. That's a waste of human intelligence. If you want to protect local people from competition in the job market, then don't introduce immigrants. If you want immigrants to boost your economy, then cut off those bureaucratic barricades. You can't have both. If you do, the consequences will be worse, plain and simple. Nowadays, Canada's problem seems to be the introduction of too many immigrants in recent years, but the true landmine was actually mined many, many years ago.
​ @Saujas russian, ukrainian and belarussian degrees are literally just as valuable as ugandian
 @sarcomakaposi2054  So who remains in Ukraine if they've even gone as far as Mexico?
 @hellyeah7403  Exactly! And in many cases, at the expense of those motherland's taxpayers who funded their education!
 @acharat6 - explain the 1534? U forget the French lost the War.
A system my freind we were born into. My sons cant by a house there born here. There tapers inthe union work is scarce in ontario the house were sold to indian and Chinese. The builder raised house price to 900 000 now they cant sell them price droped 600.000. We in const are being robed 1800 gross weekly minus gst fed tax comes to 8 or 900 gas 200.  700 times 4 2800 now the fun part rent ins car maintenace griceries. So much more you have kids point being really doesnt matter what you do there no reward so reward your self and carry on good luck
You would have thrived in the US.  I have several friends that moved to the US  from Canada back in the early 90's. They told me that taxes there are roughly 50%. That is insane! And thought police??  Like I have said before, get ride of Trudeau.  Make Canada Great Again!
I live in Germany, we have a relatively new coworker who is a Ukranian Immigrant/Fugitive in wake of the recent war. She has a Diploma as Civil Engineer, but for some reason she had to go over dozens of hurdles to get  the degree approved... and then the gov. cries about nobody with qualifications wanting to work anymore. Its bullshit
@henryhe4040  Today, they fill a plane in Mumbai with whoever wanted to and bring hundreds of thousands of them a year. Those people don't speak English, don't read English, have zero professional training, and go to work for Tim whatever, or other similar places. Exactly the same as our neighbors did with their southern border.
I'm glad my son in law and my daughter changed their minds about moving to Canada.
​@bengurion5285 I agree. Go to Sydney!. It's a hidden jewel that is one of the most modern, clean innovative places to live. And ain't crazy expensive. 😮
So your beef (arguably a good one) is with the BC Engineers society, not Canada as a country.
 @chorusetcantus5109  My guess is that only those who could aford a quick exit actually got out. Like in every story, the poor and the sick stay behind. Not all of Ukraine is at war, only those states close to the border with Russia.
@DrZed-sv9mj  You're right, but the government of the country, when they compile their immigration programs, has to have some mechanisms in place to bend local authorities to their will. Kinda 'help new prospects, not simply push them away'. Some six months refreshment courses would help a lot, as an example.
Ми з мамою живемо в Новій Шотландії, ми родом з Житомира. нам було важко, коли ми переїхали сюди, я розумію, що ви відчуваєте🙏💙💛
Well they were teenagers. Maybe u give urself an excuse not to go back to school. I have a 28yo guy who graduated with a BS in EE with a baby.   Maybe it's just your European (eastern) conservative mentality
I'm sad it went that way for you, in today's market there would be no need to stay within your specialty though.  Building maintenance engineer jobs would be the target for someone like this and there is not an amazing demand, but when these jobs open they get a bunch of unqualified applicants you can jump right ahead of.  I say so because I am an "engineer" who is paid well to maintain a building with lots of equipment in it, but I only have a degree in IT.  We have electrical engineers, electricians, IT guys, telecom guys, people who specialize in putting up large tower structures, the list probably does go on.  If you know how to do some stuff, we'd take you.  A guy like you would not be afraid to do things like look in a ceiling or get blasted in the face with rust particles.
​ @Saujas depends on a degree. Mine requires no validation, it's being accepted as it is
It is normal. Unless u have work recommendations from international company or top uni, u need to prove your trade or get lesser wages.  My dad's construction workers from Bangladesh n Thailand many have degrees
 @chorusetcantus5109   Like I said, the truth of the matter is that Native American People would forever be the subject of scapegoat, and victimized by the Colonizers of their lands, as long as they occupy those vast rich bountiful lands in order to justify their occupation. In other words, thy Colonizers are 'living in denial'.. They are 'living in sin'. 🤷 For honest truths, pls read the informative and insightful, multi-pages comment by 'Lonely Alaskan' at, "Complete History Of Indigenous America Before Colonialism/Chronicle", on YouTube (which by the way, got pushed down below 150 other comments lately).
 @Saujas  It was always like that with all post ussr countries degrees (except baltic countries since they are in eu now and probably a few diplomas of top expensive unis from Moscow, at least pre 2022)
I met quite a lot of Canadian educated Canadians including whites holding university degrees only working as  Security Guards and in Services industry such as in Tim Hontons and Supermarkets.
I was born in Canada studied engineering in Canada, and I too went through the hoops and jumps of the BC engineers society, and was denied a p-eng after proving my experience, but because my experience was in civil engineering, and my education is mechanical engineering I was denied, and told to go back to university, and try again when I graduated with a third engineering diploma.
 @sarcomakaposi2054  As an immigrant from Ukraine, I am scared of drugs, guns, and murders in Mexico. I have never been to Mexico and I am sure that this is not the case throughout Mexico, but when people talk about Mexico, this is the first thing that comes to mind.
You just have ukrainian degree and American or Canadian Ukraine,Russian degrees are suck😂😂😂
I know an engineer from Eastern Europe that moved to Canada and works as an engineer.
 @igorpro8462  Mexicans who go to Canada and the US are almost unqualified people from working class families. The ones with a degree stay in the country or go to Europe or whatever else for a higher position for some time. In general there's is a high demand of engineers in Tijuana, Ciudad Juárez, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Querétaro, Saltillo, Guaymas, Nogales...
 @GeorgeFares-kk6mc   nothing is perfect im american i havent seen the whole country we are having problems here too
 @maligos1  A lot of sensasionalist news. If you aren't involved in bad businesses, you will be safe.
 @jennifermarlow.  These accounts deeply saddens me. I often wonder how the powers at be like in the states where there is homelessness and increase in mental illness seems clueless to what is happening.   As someone commented on this chat. "Immigrants  are some of the hardest working people in these countries and even built these countries to where they ard today and yet they are treated so badly.  I did not realize that even people with degrees are going through the same struggles as ordinary workers. The Government can't recognize these are some of the things that destroys people's lives. You spent a lot of money and time to qualify yourself,  work extremely hard, go beyond what is required and yet, they make things almost impossible to obtain and have people living in fear of being deported.
My friend's wife work as a HR for a gaming QA company. I've heard that many of them are very skilled immigrants doing minimum wage brainless testing, just because their education/experience are not accepted here. The most extreme case was a person with phd and was a nuclear physics prof from Romania.
They say some of the smartest people you'll meet are taxi drivers
 @PrairieCossack  but for how long?is Ab going to be a bit better????
Well,  outside of america, you guys diplomas are worth  the equivalent of a paper in a crackerjack box
Im glad you and your family are safe in Canada.  Ukrainian people are what Canada needs.  YOUR not third world people.  You are first class. You're not scammers,  liars, or dirty.
@TheSuperVideoRey1  That's true. Most Mexicans chip or pour concrete, collect garbage and puch brooms. I've met only one Mexican electrician, but he was white.
@andylishez  That's funny. There are still the world class universities in Russia, but in the Ukraine, you can go to the most famous ones and buy your way through no problem.
@stevenkostamo1279  This is really crazy. It can work when you're still in your 20th, and even then? My older daughter graduated from the Canadian university, couldn't find work,  did masters, couldn't find work, got her PhD, and now works at the university in Europe, teaching.
@taytyty7444  I was 42 when we landed. Four years in the university, ten years to get known,  get your own seal at your 60th birthday, something like that? And during all that time rent a one bedroom apartment in some rathole, ride a bus, and have pasta three times a day?
When did you get a mechanical engineering degree? Was it in the former Soviet Union? I could see why that caused some issues if so. At least you aren’t living there now lol.
@donaldtrumplover2254  Yes, it was back in the USSR. And yes, again, I am extremely lucky that I left that place before all that happened.
Sounds like how democrats operate here in the U.S.  especially in California
My dad was a mechanical engineer as well. Canada is where hopes and dreams go to die...
carpentry is a skill. mechanical engineer is a white collar job.
 @bengurion5285  I would not say that. Living in Australia, I have Mechanical engineer friends from Europe. They all speak English, and none of them are working in their field. Me neither. (I am a different type of engineer). Australia is the same shit.
 @eustacemcgoodboy9702  Very true, sadly. European education is much better and they know this - that`s why.
 @mikephillips2984  I live in Australia, know people from Ukraine and Russia, and trust their degrees much more than a similar degree from an Australian University. Aus education is everything but not academics, teamwork, peer review - all bullshit
Every Product is so expensive! People are going poor very poor, NO FUTURE for the average person! Only the rich can live nicely! 😢  BTW ; this is happening in Europe too.
 @joevarga5982 because of Visa if you’re from Europe you have to get Visa to America north and south if you’re from American continent you have to get Visa to Europe and to get Visa to USA is harder then Canadian visa
 @jaguarmemez to go there you need visa i am Ukrainian and i cant get visa
Little too late to ask this but why the hell didn’t you move to the US? You and your wife had 6 figure income-level skills and education.
 @Donetskonlineua   Which comment are you replying to? I don't have time to go through 504 comments to figure it out.
my step mom has a university degree in education in the philippines. when moving to canada, she's worked as a nanny for years, worked in tim hortons for a year or two, worked in a hotel for a year or two, and has been working in daycare since.
 @Agent-mb1xx  no? he came here before the war if you bothered to read the comments.
the amount of rules, regulations, and barriers the government puts up here is ridiculous. everything from traffic signs to educational requirements to construction permits, etc... they make everything so difficult just to get things going. and they're so eager to take from citizens too, with crazy income tax rates, constant ticketing for the most minor driving infractions.... it's like they don't want anything to actually get done, they just want control over everything
If I can sell my home which is a starter home (fixer upper) I would hire you to build me a new home. We can't find anyone who will build us a house. Everyone booked for yrs or only do subcontracting on new subdivisions....I want a custom house, not a copycat subdivision house.
The true Canadian story! So many immigrants are lured here with a promise that they skills and qualifications will be recognized. Then it never is!
Spot on the public call for skilled immigrants yet when they arrive these immigrants who do not have “Canadian qualifications” are then denied opportunities. It is all smoke and mirrors folks. Nothing is like it seems.
They tried to offer this to me years ago (electronic engineer) so glad I turned it down.
@ another persons downfall motivates your happiness? that’s literally misery in a nutshell😭 misery loves company.
@ina43431  What are you babbling about? Vetting engineers is a good thing and has nothing to do with emotions.
That’s one hell of a story, people don’t realize you gotta do what you Gotta do in any given generation.
I guess every story is different.  I came here 10 years ago as a skilled worker too. Got my first job in Canada 3 months from landing. Applied and got 2 other jobs since. I'm an instrumentation technician.
Come to the U.S.  we may be expensive but we still have some opportunity
Understandably, as the most attractive country in the world, our standards are high. College degrees from the United States are scrutinized by Canadian admissions because the level of education in Canada is much higher comparatively.
My mother came from Cuba with a masters in Biochemistry. She would have loved to have gotten some sort of job in the medical field or relating to medications. They made her have to do her Masters again, which she did. She couldn't find a job with her masters so she took a PHD and 15 years later landed a job in a pharmaceutical company making $30 an hour. She worked at Walmart and Starbucks during those 15 years to try to make the ends meet.
 @Saujas Because they are bought with bribes.Corruption is a well-known problem in ukraine. Prześlij opinię Dostępne są tłumaczenia
@Flintones  This is why 500,000 East Indians who don't even speak basic English came to Canada last year alone. :D
Good that everyone knows, ist no big deal to buy a degree in Ukraine. Im a Personal Manager in Germany and a lot of people told me about this!! Because most oft Ukraine people can´t english but have a degree.. for sure???!!
@przemekpoprostu  The Eastern European people blend in the Canadian society, and East Indian ones bend the local customs to their liking. Everything around them is turned into India. I didn't hear even ones an uneducated person from India listening to Western music - it's always their something. I have like a quarter million of them living in my neighborhood, I know what I'm talking about. And they are very boor, too
@pbrother2403  You don't have to speak English to live in Slavic countries, and you don't need English to get your education. People like IT professionals are forced to learn basic English for professional reasons, for others it's just a personal matter. But buying a degree for money is a different thing.
Well, not too bad. A person with a PhD degree in Engineering with rocket science background from NASA has also spent the entire Canadian life as a low income technician.
​@Saujas  it's not just Ukraine. A lot of degrees from other European countries are invalid outside the EU.
 @Saujas  because you could ( can ?) buy a degree for 2-3k$ everything except medical doctors degree lol I know because i though fk i'll like to be a doctor for 2000 $ but they said any degree except that is available. I'm talking about approved degrees from universities.
It seems there needs to be a more efficient reciprocity standard for professionals. To deny immigrant physicians, engineers or architects- uncategorically, is a huge loss of talent and it makes a mockery of the immigration process.
 @CJZ964  Gentlemen I apologize for our governments lack of respect to you. You should have been allowed to get a job on day one and let them sort out the details later. My family has been here for many generations. During my school years in the 50s and 60s I had many classmates that were the children of immigrants from Europe after the war. Many from Ukraine, Poland, Italy, the Balkan countries, Hungary and many from Asia. All their parents worked in factories, hotels, wherever they could find work. some opened restaurants  and I thank them for opening my taste buds to delicious foreign foods. The point is..we used to welcome immigrants with open arms, and you in return took the jobs and paid taxes and assimilated; for the most part; into the fabric of our society. I am truly sorry it cannot be like that still. Good luck to you. You deserve better treatment from our government who urged you to come here in the first place. Shame on them!
@Pykld  "not researching better." Hop AWFF!! Did you not understand that we were duped?? I can also tell you to stop being poor, you were born here afterall ffs. YOU don't open your mouth if you don't understand the plight of immigrants. Privilege is invisible to those that experience it.
You just picked the wrong side of the country to live on.  East coast has no money so we can't afford to send our kids to University.  We need skilled workers and although you might not make as much, you don't need nearly as much to live on because our housing is comparatively cheap.  Or at least they were until people from other provinces started buying our homes and renting them for what it would cost to live in Toronto.  We now have a homeless problem.  Thanks for that Ontario, ya greedy pricks.
OUCH!  There are certainly a lot of requirements here in terms of transition for schooling.  It makes no sense,  I wish that our gov would spend more time fixing that bridge instead of creating more barriers, it is impeeding growth in our economy.   Instead have courses that patch up the differences instead of making people take the degree all over again!
My poor father has the exact same degree as you, from the exact same country; the exact same story except that he was cleaning an underground parking garage at night, then "graduated" to truck driving. He worked like that from 1991 to 2016, and only retired because I give him money every month.
Yes, very common. I have friends that were Dr's & engineers back home now they work in a completely different field. Cost of living is very high and international degrees not often recognized even though we have a shortage of skilled workers. Bait & switch sadly.
You were the wrong color. Had you been any other the Engineer's Society would have opened the door wide open for you.
As someone who works in AB oil trades I've seen this happen to a lot of actual skilled immigrants who came in through the proper channels from all over including war torn or corrupt countries like Ukraine, Africa, and Venezuela. They'd have 20+ years experience and Journeyman tickets of welding and Instrmentation etc, and yet the government made them do it ALL over again over here. But we have a bunch of Indians come in now that say they have Jman experience back from India, and some how are allowed to directly challenge Jman level, get it somehow when they can't even perform First Year level apprentice tasks or even speak enough English to understand anyone. It's destroying the trade industry and it's embarrassing.
my husband is a Canadian who cannot find a job in Canada...we dont need immigrants! he is a welding engineer..classically educated and degree certified
This happens to so many immigrants its sad. We need doctors and the government makes it so hard for people to get qualified to practice medicine even though they went to reputable post-secondary schools overseas. My high-school metal work teacher was a Russian Naval Engineer. She could not find work in her field and ended up teaching metal shop and metal art. She always seemed so depressed and I totally get why. She was terribly overqualified for her job.
@magmcd3478  The whole system is damaged and needs a major overhaul, this is true
 @CJZ964 They claim they want your skills? I’m pretty sure immigration never sends invitations to anyone to apply to come to Canada, you take the initiative to apply yourself
@lildoogy1348  Correct. However, you are not getting in without a profession they deem necessary
​ @Saujas Because in Ukraine you can buy any document from a passport to a university diploma. I don't know how much it costs now, but 10 years ago it was about $1,000. That's why
@ohjeez.639  It's a point of view of a person who never moved their bottom to another city. First, I didn't buy my diploma at the subway station.  Second, one must move with the family, or they will have to go through the immigration process again as independent entities, which is most of the time not possible because of the point system, forget that it takes forever.  Third, I expected elemental help and guidance from the governing body, not just 'f... off' letter.
Yeah, Soviet scientist were highly valued. Especially in countries like Canada, which were already Socialist and had their full economic problems because of it.
I researched immigrating to Canada years ago since I am skilled. But they won’t even accept my degree. Eff Canada. It’s just as well because all these years laterI’ve realized I’m far better off. Even living in California! 🤘😁
 @TodAufDerFlutch life is not easy,every one has to go through the same hurdle,imagine if the country doesn’t screen anyone coming in Canada,what kind of unqualified professionals we would get.The rule of law is here for a good reason,having said so does not mean I have no sympathy toward anyone who has hardship to enter Canada..
@urlauburlaub2222  Science has nothing to do with politics. A good scientist can be pushed into politics by the circumstances, like Oppenheimer or Kurchatov were, but being a good mathematician doesn't make you a socialist, or liberal, or whatever. A lot of Soviet or later Russian university graduates made Silicone Valley what it is today. The most prominent one is Mr. Brin. East Indians came  to share the spoils.
@igorpro8462   You obviously are referring to technicians. A scientist is not able to be "pushed" into politics.
@robertwilber1909  :D I don't know if Oppenheimer is a technician enough for you. He created a nuke for political reasons, not for pure scientific curiosity
@igorpro8462  Emotion swayed his actions unless it was a true objective valuation choice. Would he have made one for Stalin?
@robertwilber1909  Stalin had his own nuclear scientists. What difference does it make? People have different preferences and beliefs. I know a lot of Soviet scientists teaching in Western  universities after the USSR collapse. It doesn't make them supporters of anything
About 20 years ago in the UK, my dad's company hired a Polish girl to work as a filing clerk.  She had an economics degree from a decent Polish university.  Being a filing clerk in the UK paid more than being in Poland and using her degree. Granted things may have changed since then, now that Poland is more developed, but it's still a pretty stark comparison.
That kind of things you see in ALL countries, which used to have or still have open borders politics for skilled immigrants. 35 years ago I were in college to become a blacksmith and all our teachers were shite. Our main teacher could not weld at all anymore, so we did not even bother to ask him to show us, how we should do things anymore, but asked the refugee from Iraq, who formerly were an offshore welder: He could do the things blindfolded! But just the insanity in a offshore welder coming to the country, and he has to do the whole education again, like there is a language barrier in welding! Offshore welders are still to this day the pinnacle within the profession. I have just met so many people here in Denmark, with long university degrees and educations, who work as cap drivers or lowly factory workers, as I actually do myself too. Do not feel sorry for me though: I live in a row house and pay a little more than 500 US Dollars a month and can easily afford a descent living here, even though Denmark is generally a very expensive country to live in. The trick here is NOT to look for housing in the big cities though, were the situation is the exact same as in Canada: In Copenhagen and Aarhus hardly any affordable housing has been build at all since the 1980s or even before, and pair that with high immigration and also a big rush every autumn of students going to live near the education centers in those cities, you can do the math yourself!
 @igorpro8462  You would love to be sent to the front and die? Or live without electricity? Are you sane?
Totally agree with you Igor, they treat you like you've never been in the industry when as an engineer I could test you in 2 min and give you a stamp of approval... but maybe the laws of electromagnetism and physics differ in Ukraine.     I literally met a heart surgeon from Belgrade some 15 years ago working as a delivery guy at Dominos pizza, .. 2 months later he was pulled into NY City once their head of surgery learned of this globally known surgeon's plight in Toronto.   Also, why are nurses flying in from India to then be tested and harassed in Canada, we as a rich country cannot open testing sites in India to allow those poor people to test and gain approvals locally, they have to migrate here ???  Im done !
@Tyronom  Please read the whole post to the last dot before posting the comment. I left that territory way before the first orange stuff hit it, way before. And I am not discussing the political issues, it's strictly information for people interested in moving to Canada as independent professionals.
 @igorpro8462  As a mechanical engineer lived in Alberta and now in BC I'd like to say Alberta offers 20-30% more wage and more opportunities for mechanical engineers. Most engineers that I know in BC are civil.
 @bengurion5285  Australia and New Zealand same as Canada. Avoid all countries former members of the British Commonwealth and constitutional monarchies.
 @MsLinda165  Don’t agree with you. Our education at the university level is much better in Western Europe. Forty years ago I invested in a  bankrupted Canadian corporations with few other investors. While I had a MBA from a French university I decided to go back to university in Toronto to study accounting, financial management and fiscal management knowing that accounting principals were different in Canada. I was totally surprised that the level of mathematics was much lower in Canada. For a master program the computer sciences for business management were first year undergraduate level  of an European university. Probabilities and exponential calculus were also hardly undergraduate level. My professor in mathematics was a young Russian who told me he had been surprised by the poor level of knowledge in mathematics and physics in Canada. Finally I decided to study at home and not losing my time attending university.
 @zzzubmno2755  Totally false. I have Canadian masters and French masters. I can assure you the level of the Canadian masters are equivalent to European undergraduate degrees; and in mathematics and physics the Canadian degrees are hardly university entry level in Europe. The reality is European students are losing their time in Canadian universities. You start to get a good level at the post-graduate level (PhD) in certain universities depending on the type of studies (mining and geology).
 @Saujas  it's not just Ukrainian degrees, it's most degrees, especially non Western ones. There are reasons for it, I personally am not saying there aren't reasons, but they should have a program to test competency before validating the degree in a particular person. But no such system exists.
 @m_s_5750  just wanted to say hi, as a fellow immigrant. We came here when I was 10, dad's degree was Engineering and not recognized, he worked as a cleaner then as a trucker, but I was lucky enough and talented enough to get to medschool. I'm a practicing psychiatrist now.
 @Earthboundmike  Ukraine split off from the USSR and Russia (SSR) also split off from the USSR.  Ukraine was never part of the Russian Federation.
You could work as an engineer, but you would have to be a Ukrainian Jew and not a Slav. For Jews, they nostrify diplomas without a problem, and provide full access to the job market and career development.
@ashwilliams4989  Never heard about it. Either way, it's too late now
 @igorpro8462  youre a little weasel the way you talk about 'the Ukraine'
 @igorpro8462   the goes for the rest of the world , i think the solution is to have a standard test for each profession to prove you have the job skills not having to take the same exam as new graduates
I also came to Canada as an Immigrant and obtained a Canadian Degree and it did not necessarily get me a higher than average paying job. The office jobs I landed I could have landed with a highschool diploma and I graduated with honours. It's all about favoritism not qualifications in the Canadian Job Market.
Could have been worse. Could have been a doctor with a medicine degree from Italy, then get told your degree isn't good enough. True Story!
 @eustacemcgoodboy9702 I work in a hospital in the US and it as well as most others in this area are full of middle eastern and Indian doctors and I know at least some of them went to med school in their native countries.
When the psychopath has nothing to fear, they will take everything
The Liberals never needed your skills, just your vote. Canada graduates more Engineers per capita than the US. We don't need Engineers - that market is heavily oversaturated, we need tradesmen and competent politicians.
Should have come to Cleveland. Plenty of engineering work and none of the BS
I hate how Americans and Canadians abuse the word "three jobs." What the hell is that supposed to mean? You could work more hours in one job than three jobs put together.  Wouldn't it be better to say "people work 14 hours a day 7 days a week"
It is indeed unfortunate what happened to you.  It should never have happened.
 @Coupal1  on the contrary, it is a fortune - his hobby became his profession...
A story all too common I hear. We got doctors stocking grocery shelves
Off topic, but putting "the" in front of Ukraine usually enrages Ukrainians. It's just Ukraine.
 @m_s_5750 it’s not just depressing for immigrants… but people in Canada have it better than most places in the world, so I have a problem with anyone complaining about Canada this way (not saying you are.) 🤷‍♀️
Ukraine has formed creative engineers this much was made evident by their creativity during the current conflict.  Perhaps the provinces can standardize the hoops they have and determine if they are still needed or not.
Sorry that after 22 years you are complaining about your luck in Canada. You should have gone back to Ukraine and fought in the current war. Immigrants to this great nation have the choice of going back to their home countries if they don't like here, simple.
@yvrgator  I'm not complaining. I'm stating the facts for the new immigrants, period. Canada is my home now, but it doesn't change on what conditions I came here.
That's rough, man. I'm sorry to hear about your experience.  It sounds like the US might have been a bit easier for you, especially with your skills.  A lot of talented engineers find more opportunities here.
Yeah thats the problem, they will create so much barriers, that you will either fail in one or two or it will take immense cost and money, I dont understand what do they try to check??
I hear Uganda is looking for skilled people. Jk.  I would go the Bahamas,open a sunglass hut. Idk....choosing a country...not easy nowdays.
@franklee2683  My coworker went to Mexico and opened a burrito stand on the beach
They claim they want skill but will make it. Hard for you to get into your career and you have to go back to school
Happened he same thing to me. I was brought to this garbage can canada as a machinist and got laid off for 9 times. Bankrupt twice and retired with nothing from the government job.
 @igorpro8462  my grandfather was a mechanical engineer and made blue prints of God only knows mills,power plants, steel plants, etc in his life. He got his degree in 1948. He is long passed.....but a Canadian citizen born in Nova Scotia
yep went there as A LITERAL AMERICAN WITH AN AMERICAN UNIVERSITY DEGREE AND YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN TECH and they wanted to pay me 12.00 an hour in Toronto. hilarious.
 @Saujas  Why would they be ? Have you ever hired Ukrainian tradesperson ? ... .They good people but will never work by piece work .
Well..i came from old Yugoslavia, where i worked as a tug boat engineer, and have a licence ...and then there are some doctors from some different ex Yugoslavia countries after 2 weeks of training...or engineers..or you name it. This is a reason, not Canada.
 @zlatkozivkovic8694  What about " after 2 weeks of " ... what is you trying to say ?
It wouldn't be easier to get degree at Canadian university. I am from Europe, did my mechanical engineering degree in BC and for sure it was more difficult program and course load that engineering schools in Europe, it was in 90's. Had in class European exchange students (from Germany and Sweden) and they were straggling with work load.
Suburbs of Russian cities. Social short clip h57iGzQXFhI Cities: Moscow, St Petersburg, Yekaterinburg, Rostov-on-Don, Yaroslavl, Kaluga, Obninsk
Real Russia/Provincial Russia. Middle Volga. Ancient fighting traditions in Russian Villages. Trinity Fest, teens (High schoolboys) Qywy5oFi448  (Elementaty schoolboys) 5Qpw5zVwqtE
I think what you are talking about is very true and very common in out just Canada, but a lot of western countries. They want us here, but they don't trust what we can do. What bother forcing us to get another degree instead of giving us exams or some real work to prove what we are capable of?
Sorry Canada, we are not accepting applications for new states right now, if we let you in you friendly mofos would vote our rights away. Ireland too no room left I feel very sorry for them. Occupado. All full up over here.
 @jennifermarlow.  I once sold a car to an Egyptian engineer so that he could drive for Uber. Said he wanted to leave, but had to stay for his kids.
@firstandforemost87  I can retire if I move to Mexico. It's not possible to live on the pension I can get. Quite a few people I know keep working in their 70th
extremely. I talked to some developers ( i know they are also part of the problem due to their greed ) and they explained so much about all the red tape surrounding building new homes. Also another issue is the supplychains are not constrained rather greedy people know how they keep the prices up since they will face no repercussion for their actions. Grocery monopolies are the same. The politicians and their buddies are just exacerbating the situation.
 @AstroNope1  We could have been building houses to last, like they have in Europe.  Canada is so vast.  In my part of the country, there are houses built with hydrostone as public housing, and are still in A-1 condition a century later.  We have many brick homes.  Since the 70s, cheap construction with tons of regulations has been the way.  Developers in my city make deals and say they will build mixed-use, or 10% 'affordable housing' in their buildings.  When it comes time to build, they pay a small (for them) fine, and do what they want.  It's a corrupt system all the way.
​ @AstroNope1 can you elaborate on what you heard about greed in the supply chains?
Yes a lot of land that can bee occupied super fast for others ethnic that they know how to overpopulated, I think they can see that. I am really scared that happened,  I want to run muy sins too but where to go, the all world is being invaded!!😢
 @AstroNope1 MORE HOUSES MORE OF THE SAME WILL OCCUPIED THOSE HOUSES!! STOP UNTIL CLEAN UP YHE MESS!!
 @MaríaLalala-v3h  what are you on? other ethnic? they poor.. the ones they are bringing in are living in the 25 person basements. Its easy for governments to delude simple minded folks to think that foreign buyers are the cause for home stock depletion and price increase on the smallest percentage in the buyer market. The goverment should impose a ban on multihome ownership (which btw is mostly owned by a certain ethnic group majority) until we have enough supply. Also a ban on short term rentals, like a person shouldnt be able to own multiple homes and airbnb it... nor a company in this economy especially.
@ I am agree with you 100% I live in Brampton with neighbours that have those basements full of students, my house is just few blocks from the so call "ALGOMA UNIVERSITY “ , imagine how I feel, my flower city town transformed in a shiit dumpster.
I mean Yukon or North of any province outside the big cities has cheap housing
 @andalucish that is not true in BC at all! Check out the housing costs in small interior towns and you will see that it is barely less than the insane costs of Vancouver, Victoria, and Kelowna.
Because somebody has to work. If everyone wants to be a landlord -- shit happens.
What does a lack of housing have to do with corruption?
 @Kilgor42  True of lots of other places though. I see that BC has only around 400 listings for 3+ br houses under 250K. But Alberta has more than 1000, so do Sk,  the Maritimes and QC. Nfld has 500 all by itself.  Similarly if you don't need 3 bedrooms, there are lots of 1+ bedroom places under $150K in AB, SK and Atlantic Canada.
 @jennifermarlow.  Indeed it is! If a "bunch of people" running a country like Canada can't allocate few billions to build hundred thousand medium rise (8-16 floor) apartments in reinforced concrete in 2-3 bed rooms each (like in the rest of the world) per annum then there are serious questions to be asked. "Raw capitalism" is the problem not the supply chain or shortage of manpower. Is it a crime that the government invests in such a national cause? Or it is only OK to bail out banks like in 2008?!
Why don't you ask your new arrivals to build new cities for themselves? The Canadian government calls itself a nation of immigrants, right? Could it be they don't seem to realize the difference between a pioneer and an immigrant?
To be fair the habitable part of Canada is probably the size of Spain.
 @rsmybest8100  well I don’t know what country they came from but housing in their place of origin is probably just as expensive ,unless they live in some remote small country with no capitalist society.
The problem is nobody wants to live in most of that land, 90% of the country's geography and climate isn't desirable for intensification and urbanization. That said, I do concede that there is still plenty of space in the 10% that is desirable and that the blame lays on the governments for not building the infrastructure to support additional density in those areas.
You CAN afford a house in areas with a ton of land.... Unfortunately the houses most people want are not located where there is a lot of land.
Trudeau is a great leader, hope he comes back to power
We are in exactly the same boat in Australia. We lack affordable housing and only old people own houses.
The land figure doesn't really hold up as 70% of the country is considered uninhabitable and unsuitable for agriculture due to the permafrost layer/ tundra. The desirable places to live in Canada are typically within 1-2 hours of the US border with only a few exceptions. But even with that said it doesn't make sense why we still have this problem considering there is still plenty of land.
Why should Canada destroy its so-called 'vacant land' with its natural beauty and abundant wildlife to build housing for non-Candians seeking to escape their overpopulated  countries so as they can turn Canada into the same.
You can't just build and settle wherever there's empty land. It has to be economical. The rocky rugged landscape makes it difficult to construct buildings and utilities. The short growing season and thin rocky soil make it difficult to grow food. The need for winter heat is a major ongoing expense. The only way to pay for life up north is to extract resources, which is what they do. When the resource is exhausted, the people have no choice but to leave. The fact is, at 40 million Canada is already overpopulated.
Total population (50 million) has nothing to do with it, what matters is rate of growth, particularly in urban centers. If it's high, like it is in Canada in big part due to immigration, that will contribute more to housing shortage regardless of overall population size being relatively small.
(?) You are very short on land. Only 16% of Canada is privately owned. You are a huge experiment in Soviet land ownership.
 @patricialee76  Get real. A large part is unsettled or native claimed. We are resource rich in forestry, oil, water, and minerals where it's not populated. We have a lot more freedom than the US. We don't try to control our women.
So, you want to live up North where it's minus 42 degrees celcius all winter?
@codenamezz9993  I lived in Price Alberta Sask for years. Millions of people live in changing climates. Your weaknesses and inability to adapt are your own.
Talk to your provincial government as they are responsible for this. Get out and vote. Ford in Ontario is responsible. He ended rent control and all his mobster friends are running the housing market.
 @salahelackad2005 it isn’t the federal government that is responsible. It is the provincial government. Look to them. They work for us. Get out and vote.
 @salahelackad2005  Yes could buy good cardboard boxed for that? 10 billion 100,000 apartment buildings $100,000 per building or 10,000 per floor. Math eh?
 @robdom91  exactly instead of just stuffing them in all the major cities
there are lots of cheap houses, even in toronto, housing is very cheap. you can get a new condo on subway line with parking for 500k. it's way cheaper if you get outside GTA/GVA
just remember with more homes being built, you need more roads, sewers and other infrastructure, schools, hospitals and fire/police. all of which is immensely expensive and why Edmonton for example is in a urban sprawl problem. It's easy to build a home, its multitudes harder to service those homes with the other things.
Everyone wants to live where everyone else lives because everyone is looking for good-paying jobs.
 @thatundeadlegacy2985  funny this basic fact people want to ignore, these stories and complaning are always so bias, I can't afford to buy and or live in one of the major cities, when there are endless of other options, go build a life somewhere else like your ancestors did. This isn't a Canadian problem neither, its a problem throughout the developed world and both sides of government have caused it.
it's because all our oil and wood goes to the US to be refined then sold back to us at insane prices.  we should be one of the top 5 richest nations in the world.
Among many reasons and issues Real Estate corporate interest are main factor for inflated Home prices, how in the World agency can make  overage 4.5 % commission on House worth  for example sold for $850,000, $38,250 commission, unbelievable profits , practically the higher the home prices the Realtors make more profits, while customers who selling think that's Ok  because they got top bucks for but when they buying property all that disappear, selling high buying high, who only has profit from entire situation Realtors!
The second largest country in the world with abundant natural resources and just 40M population. How? How? How come it feels there's nowhere to live?
I mean there are literally 5 bedroom houses going for sub $200k about 30 minutes from where I live. It's an hour from a small city, but it doesn't exist. But people don't wanna live in those areas cause jobs are scarce.
But everyone wants to live in the big cities ... and there's only a few of em.
 @thatundeadlegacy2985  nowhere to live and the rental price is typically the same, for a room it's the same price in Parry sound as it is on Toronto. Over $1000 for a small bedroom in someone's house not an apartment. And that's everywhere. $800 to share a small bedroom with another person that's what the rental market is like.
But how much of Canadian land is livable? Do people want to live outside of the metro areas?
@lorla151  only 11% of the country is privately owned. %89 is owned by the government. There's no house's being built really so we're limited to old places already here and having to pay over $1000 a month to rent a small bedroom in someone's basement. Forget an apartment. That's the same price outside the city there's simply nowhere to live. And often no jobs AND nowhere to live outside the "metro areas"
@lorla151  it's not that we don't want to live outside of Metro areas, we want to leave but it's simply not possible for much of the country. No busses. No house's. No businesses.
Lack of homes and high costs while forcing debt on to people is what America is all about too
immigration is like the lottery. not everyone can immigrate. help people in their countries
It is better to be poorer with social peace than a rich economy with lots of problems
Alott of Canadas land is uninhabitable due to the Canadian shield. Crops cant grow nor flourish, winter is too cold, summer now presents itself with tons of forrest fires
Part of the reason for the surprise is that it's culturally viewed as "bigoted" and "racist" in the USA to point out to people that Canada is much less progressive overall than the USA (in grammatical terms, not the slang definition that's usually used on cable news and in casual conversation). Truudeu is a far right authoritarian bigot by "progressive" standards, which makes it even more infuriating that it's so politically incorrect to criticize Canada as a US citizen. I'm in WA state, so I know I'm in a bubble of goofiness, but still.
 @calmlake1616  Immigration is when a group of people with different cultural background flock to your country to take advantage of its riches. It's a bit different when you actually have to build the country yourself! You become the local culture in the part of the country that you, yourself build.  I could immigrate to your country and leech off your wealth, no problem. But I would die inside a week as a pioneer, because I lack the skills to build and survive on my own. There's a difference. So, the land was always given to worthy people.
Ummmm, the amount of land means nothing. It's the amount of land people want to live on that matters. Whoever made those comments to you are clueless.
 @kmacgregor6361  if only one can have a cheap house but did not have to have a job eh? many places in eastern canada have shitty jobs or very little jobs so what good is the cheap house if there is no jobs
 @ostravska  Many people in eastern Canada have the same kinds of jobs as people elsewhere in Canada. You can work for minimum wage at Timmies in Toronto or in Grand Falls. You can be a teacher or a nurse or a lawyer or a construction worker in Vancouver or in Annapolis Royal. Those same jobs exist everywhere. And if you're likely not going to get paid well anyway - say, you're an artist - then living somewhere inexpensive will let you actually do that.
​ @andalucish this is idiotic and shows you have no idea what you're talking about. The Yukon or any territory essentially has no economy outside of mining or logging camps, which aren't always near the "cities" in the territories and are usually ran by workers who are flown in and out during the work season.  That means that a city like Whitehorse essentially has no economy inside the city. Groceries are INSANELY expensive because almost nothing ships up there for half the year. People drive 15 hours from Yellowknife to Edmonton just to buy 3 months worth of groceries at Costco to save money. Building materials are also expensive because, again, it's not economical to ship stuff to a city of 20,000 15-20 hours drive away from the nearest hardware store.
You can, if you move to really remote area, there is a lot of land, but not all of which is livable. In fact, the density of cities like Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver are quite high. I don’t see how should you expect a city with this density could have affordable housing. Look around the world, how many major hubs without affordability issue you could list. Be realistic plz!
 @onikwa  Read what I said again. I said housing is cheaper, I didn't mention anything else.
With all that land? Ask how many of those people want to move to Moose Jaw and I suggest that you would get very few people say yes. This is an issue of choice not government
 @rsmybest8100  people get the housing crisis in Canada wrong houses are cheap in Canada houses in cities in Canada are not cheap
Canada has tons of viable useful  land , quit with the “canada is a freezer everywhere” ,, drive from toronto to windsor on the 401, bigger than many European countries,,,lots of space, good grief
move outta downtown BC or southern ontario. OH WOW Affordable housing with acres of land.... oh but you don't want that... you want whats already built and established handed to you for nothing. If you're blood has been here for more than 2 generations and you're still poor.. guess whos fault it is.
 @AstroNope1   The basements of Brampton and Scarborough are at full capacity. I've heard of as many as 80 living in a single bungalow with 30 upstairs 40 downstairs and 10 living in the garage.
95% of our land is non-arable. You also need infrastructure to develop homes... and we've been lagging hard on the infrastructure side for the past 40 years.
When people who are not even Canadians are allowed to buy property and top of that to have no extra taxations, this is what happens.
I'm so mad.  For so many compounding reasons, but all related to this BS!!!!!!!!!
 @andalucish is that for real? Yellowknifes housing is just behind Vancouver in unaffordability. The price of a mobile home is nearly $500,000 now
⁠​⁠ @Kredo800 I think it doesn’t matter who runs the government. Real estate developers, landlords, banks, etc, will take advantage of situations to help pad their bottomlines. They are going to think of every way to increase their prices and cater to those who can pay the most and they will never give that up despite the social fabric.
More misinformation.  It's not about empty land.  In the US, 95% of the land is uninhabited.  The problem isn't about land.  It's about living in an area that's close to people and work, an urban area.  If housing prices are high, then move to an area that's farther.  Yes, the commute will suck but that's the price of prosperity with wealth inequality.  When you have the top 1% take most of the growing GDP pie, they are going to drive housing prices high in the most desirable areas.  In the US, the economy has grown 20 times in the last 30 years while the median wage has only increased by 25%.  This means that the top percentile took 97.5% of the wealth created in the last 30 years.  Just consider what this means.  Of course, prices are going to skyrocket for certain goods.  This is only going to get worse since Trump got elected.  When Trump was in office the last time, he cut corporate taxes for the wealthy by FORTY PERCENT.  Yet, nobody said anything.  They even elected him again.  Imagine what he's going to do this time.  We truly live in an idiocracy where the idiot masses blame good people for doing the right thing while following the evil who take advantage of them.  Lemmings…
​ @yo9758 where are house's cheap in canada?, I've been looking all over bc and there are no cheap properties
People say this but don't realize how hard it is to build on the Canadian shield which is like 92% of our landmass. You also can't really farm much on it.
It's not corruption - it's business. It's commerce. It's profit-seeking. The housing market is largely determined by people who don't give a damn whether you have a place to life. They just want more money.
Well, part of the issue is that if you want a relatively high paying job at a good company you probably have to live in a big city like Toronto or Vancouver where land is very expensive. Much of the Country is trying to live in a handful of Cities.
​@andalucish  ,that's not true. Yukon and Yellowknife houses are more expensive that even middle class can't afford the mortgage. The average house cost here is half a million to 600k (3 bedroom and 1 washroom). Everything is expensive- gas, food, rent, etc. Everyone is struggling., some of them lose they homes because at the end of the  day, they have to choice where their pay check goes - food on the table or mortgage. There is increase of food insecurity, poverty, homelessness, and crime. I know because I live here in the North.
 @epilovelgalleta536  average cost of a house across canada is about 500k, this is an issue across Canada
 @epilovelgalleta536  things are going to be more expensive in NWT and Yukon because of the geographical location, its way harder to transport goods up there since agriculture is not viable, but also the average salary is 80k a year which is about 50% higher than the national average, Yukon and NWT are living the same as anyone else in the country, and Yukon and NWT have a combined population of 80k people as well
 @epilovelgalleta536  and who genuinely wants to own a house there? lets be real
 @undefined_0_0  A castle in France is cheaper than a house in Canada
 @existency  Only 17% of the land in Canada is privately owned the rest is Provincial & Federal Crown land so unless ' the crown ' gives up that land the value of all the rest goes up. If you look at assessment roles the land a house sits on is worth more than the house.
Or maybe 95percent of all the land being crown land might have something to do with it too.
 @keithhorning7753  You clearly have no knowledge of Canada. 45% is federal government owned and another 45 provincial which is like a state. Much of it is not habitable unless you build roads and live off grid. Over half is heavy forest or mountains and lakes. If you want to buy it you can.
I just wonder. Where do they spend all these taxes money!? Obviously not for infrastructure. No free medicine, no free education, transport. Anything!!! And then!!!! ; where is the money!!!!!???
Ask someone from China what our living expenses are like compared to theirs
try to buy land and build a house even if you get cheap land outside (usually north) of major cities....good luck...ridiculous regulations. ridiculous costs for those regulations. it is incredible. i am shocked more people do not talk about this (regs) problem.
From that video, I would say, Canada is in worse shape than Australia. However with the incompetents in charge, they have the talent to catch up, or with a little more effort, overtake Canada.Our present government, has the skills to achieve this. We have a housing shortage too. But it is by and large engineered, to benefit the elite. Overseas investors, purchase homes in the capital, and rural cities, keep some empty, to artificially create a rental and housing shortage, to increase the value of the dwelling, and higher rents, thus forcing interest levels to remain static.They also have the added benefit of negative gearing. Some people will never afford a home, and some that are paying them off, will never own them  Some home buyers, were financed into homes, with government assistance. At the moment, there is a substantial amount of people, who are on the precipice of foreclosure, however, it is kept quiet. It was recommended by the governer, of the reserve, that those struggling, to sell now, rather than default. The bubble will burst, but the elite will bail, before the humus hits the fan. I know how the system works, from butter experience  A property values at $170,000, sold for $80,000 at auction. And that was when you could buy a decent home for $70,000-$80,000. Interest rates were as high as 19%, but housing was affordable.
​ @debbielw16  That election is still a long way off, and the damage may be hard to reverse!
1 bedroom condo starts from 400k. And it all made of cardboard. That's ridiculous. Doesn't even have a backyard or privacy
Nope. I live in Southern Alberta and i can afford it just fine. I own a nice house with a nice piece of land.
I get your point, but the amount of land we have is irrelevant if everyone wants to have a home in the most densely populated areas.  It is cheap and easy to get homes in the rural areas of this country but most people don't want to or can't because of lack of work.
Well, there is all that chatter on social media about how bad the USA is. Disgruntled, over-entitled  Americans can be easily  brainwashed into thinking Canada is a piece of cake. They think free healthcare is synonmous with a free ride. I've met Americans who lived in Canada, who told me the same thing - everything is expensive except the healthcare. One was a colleague who had recently come back. He liked Canada in general - except for the brutal winters and the high cost of everything made it a place he didn't want to live in any longer.
"I been speaking with people living outside of Canada, they are also amazed that we cant afford houses with all that land"  Canada's landmass is far from ideal for habitation which is why most of it is clustered fairly close to the border with the US.
 @jennifermarlow. Houses to last? Out of what? You think the materials used in Europe can withstand the Canadian climate? Or that people can afford houses made of stone?
the land is useless, we have the triangle in Alberta through Winnipeg that is livable, the lower mainland, southern ontario, and the quebec corridor that are suitable for mass scale habitation
 @rsmybest8100  Thinking Canada has a near infinite buildable land is a common misconception. 90%+  of the population lives on a thin line to the extreme south of the country, close to the U.S. border. Winter there  can last up to 5 months and is already very harsh. Most people on Earth would consider everything more than 4  hours drive north unhabitable due to climate and lack of civilization. That's 90% of Canada. Let's just say we're not to afraid of climate getting warmer here. Sometimes we're actually looking forward to it.
 @acharat6  it is common sense. This just shows you how dumb 99% of social media commenters are.
 @Carloskypp  Well I wouldn't call it dumb.  At least it shows they once looked at a map.  Dumb is more like that waitress from Hooters in the Midwest who asked a friend of mine where he was from and he answered :  I'll give you a hint : I'm from a country that has a long border with yours.  Her answer was: So you're Polish! ;-)
 @AstroNope1  YES! People should not be able to sit with multiple homes empty when a family without one could have bought that home. In the US it's corporations buying up the housing. They own around half of all residencial real estate in the country.
100%, so much land how could it be so expensive!   I live in Hawaii and at least the prices here make a bit more sense as it is a group of small Islands but Canada?  Huge land area and low population.
It's an infrastructure problem. They want to ban cars and are promoting public transportation. Who will pay for these expansions? It's a recursive problem.
I wonder what is the percentage of renters to owner occupied
I just bought a home for 100k. Homes are affordable. Stop spreading bullshit
 @AstroNope1  hell yeah, trudeau talking about housing issues while his family owns like 10+ properties that arent even eligible for rent. No empty homes, and individuals should only own 2 properties, any more and you have to rent it out at timely average.
 @vittoriobaisi  yea that seems fair. You put those extra properties to work otherwise you pay high fees like 5x if its empty/not being renoed. You get to increase your net worth and pay your dues.
​ @robdom91 Sure. We are up for that. When do we start? And where? And how much we getting paid?
 @DucksBugsBusses  That's the beauty of it. You would be "self employed". Traditionally, you should get free transport to a destination of Canada's choice and be given tools and some minimal amount of supplies and survival gear. The rest would be up to you! Your payment would be the land itself! As much as you can build on, as much as you can occupy and hold by yourself! You could petition the Canadian government for the opportunity. I'm not a Canadian myself, but I'd be curious what they'd say. They don't have a whole lot of excuses to say no. Your personal safety would be the biggest gamble. Pioneering isn't exactly safe work.
 @robdom91  I was laughed at for suggesting such a thing!  Canada is the second largest country in the world, and although not all of it is habitable, I think it would be beneficial for all, if newcomers were offered help and incentive to move away from the border and all the cities that are overwhelmed, their infrastructure and services unable to cope with the enormous influx of immigrants.  The original settlers built towns without much help, other than working together. It can be done again, especially with help from engineers, construction workers, etc.
 @thatundeadlegacy2985  Yes. because life in "Middle country" is better than in yours
 @Steve-yc1nq  - LOL, no way you bought a house for only $100k in Toronto, so where did you buy it & show proof.
 @AstroNope1  Greed? You mean they want to get paid what they're worth but also have to pay more for supplies because supply is down and demand is up? Never mind the logistical side of things?
 @lainiwakura1776  supply is artificially low or being lied about being low. They tasted the higher returns and dont want to see the number go down.
@OurFreeSociety  a house sold in Revelstoke for $140 like 6 months ago.
 @Steve-yc1nq  which cities are the biggest by population, industry, and has all the amenities? sweetie a house in the boonies for $140 is not the same as a place where government and commerce happen. A $140 home wont exist around a hospital and good schools/unis in places that are not hyper reliant on vehicles. Just because something is cheap where you are at dont mean its cheap where everyone else is at. Also smaller townships tend to have more honest folks, hence devs and builders who are honest in their pricing. That dont apply to cities and population epicentres.
You Canadians voted for this crap. Now it’s time for you to elect a TRUMP!  Otherwise, you are done.
@AstroNope1  no shit sweetheart. You obviously missed the entire point. But we're definitely proud of you for trying to lay out some bread crumbs there. I'm sorry the Canadian geography curriculum failed you so poorly.
 @thatundeadlegacy2985 hey saskatoonion here don’t, I can imagine it’s similar in other middle province cities we have a massive homelessness problem here, when I was little I never saw homeless merely the poor now I can’t look down a street without a makeshift tent being there. Make shift meaning made of tarps, carts and random bedding that they 7 out of 10 times don’t take with them and leave scattered on the ground. We are not doing that much better than the rest of Canada.
​ @codenamezz9993 why are you all so scared of the cold. We are Canadians we have been raised in it. Im 61 now and when i was a kid we had 5 times the snow we have now, it was way colder back then . -20--40 was normal. Way more snow, way more sunshine. We all had warm coats and boots and did not go out side without them in winter. Leggings, touques, facemasks, fur mitts. It was beautiful, cold but hey where is the crazy carpet, sled ,snomobile, skis.
​ @iNSAN1TYCS how come no one has started their own insulated greenhouses to feed all you folks up north. Check out Norway, they are building Greenhouses around their homes. You can put fish in the tanks to feed the plants and the people. You should have your own wood companies for building your homes.
 @HAPPYPLANTGAL   @HAPPYPLANTGAL  You are confusing overpopulation with overcrowding. They are not the same thing. A place can have lots of space and still have too many people. Canada is such a place.  It doesn't matter if you agree Canada is overpopulated. The problem is the same and so is the solution. People can't find enough jobs or housing in Canada so they need to find a better way of life abroad.
Only some part of Canada is habitable. The rest is freezing cold and depressing specially with all the zoning laws. They're also trying to conserve the forests which is a good thing. The main issue is unaffordable housing units and greedy real estate builders.
@maryamwaqar7648  Good thing the North is too uneconomical to develop because the Earth needs our forests especially now that the tropical forests are disappearing fast. Canada's most important export to the world is oxygen. Too bad we can't charge money for it yet.
I'm from Indonesia, we have 200M+ people here, nd most of them in java, yet, we can afford place to live.  You can rent room with 1 bedroom for only $50 a month, and can eat 1 meal for only $1. We may have low payment for our job, but we can buy food and live a good life.  It's useless to get high payment if your expenses is higher than what you earn, and i just find out about it for the last 5 years.....
@cobasaja7354  Thank you for the information of how affordable living in Indonesia is. And if Java becomes too overpopulated, people can move to Sumatra or Borneo. The orangutans will then go extinct, but at least people can grow food and live. If many people in Canada moved up north, they would freeze and starve.
@cobasaja7354  indonesians are grateful people. Plus their government doesn't make false claims about being human rights warriors and showing their population dreams they can't fulfill
 @maryamw-d7l  You sound like you think Canadians are a country of spoiled millionaires, too busy vacationing and partying to work hard. It isn't like that at all. Canadians are truly struggling. Newcomers who come here for the "big money" are shocked at how quickly most of the money disappears just to make ends meet.
It's not surprising at all when you look at the nature of the government. Buy a home, or pay your taxes, can't afford to do both.
I thought so deeply. So vast of a land, gifted with a rich resource. The increase of housing price is a scam, deeply rooted in the big corporation practices.
50M? Canada is actually a larger country (in land mass) than the US, and the US has 8x the population.
Unfortunately having all that land doesn’t make it easy.  The challenge is to run services to all that land: water, sewage, electricity, post, emergency services, transportation.  Everything requires labour and ongoing cost to maintain.  It’s not impossible but with current socio economic climate, it takes so much time to effect and implement meaningful changes.  Such things take a long term plan but governments are changing so quickly these days that it’s becoming near impossible to do that.
This is a development that takes place in all countries. One reason why housing and property price increases have been so large is that housing and property price increases are not included in inflation. My childhood home outside Oslo in Norway was built in the 1950s and cost new around half the average annual salary. When my parents sold it in 1993, it cost two average annual salaries. When it was sold in 2019, it cost 10 average annual salaries. The homes in this area are now nearly 2,000 times more expensive than when they were built. Norway has the world's richest state, but the Norwegian population has the highest household debt in the world. There will soon come a time when almost no one can afford to buy or rent a house anymore as the price of housing and property rises much more than wage growth
99% of cases it is due to building regulations making impossible for entrepreneurs to invest in new housing units.  Lack of supply and surging demand cause the prices do rise
 @AstroNope1  As an American who works as an architects assistant, the problem is cultural, Americans, British and Canadians put a lot of deference on owning their own one family house in a small town and react defensively if either of those things feel threatened. So we put in a bunch of restrictions on new buildings, zoning laws; height limits, safety and environmental regulations, historical preservation... meanwhile the list of regulations and laws on selling and leasing are small because 'property rights' are a good thing.
Canada has strict regulation which effectively makes it illegal to build new houses despite all the open land.
Over-regulation plays a substantial part in the cost. The housing shortage is caused primarily by strict environmental and zoning regulations which makes it almost impossible to build new homes.
Tbh “land issues” aren’t an issue in any country, unless we’re talking something like Singapore, which is a literal city island
@ those regulations are the worse. And people don’t see it.  Even worse, they agree with the regulations and defend then “we need safety” and “pretty cities” and then proceed to complain about high rent
@iamsam8446  You can't put people wherever there is empty space. It has to be economical. When you look at a blank space on the map it doesn't tell you what the land is like or why it's uninhabited. I've seen the empty land, it looks like the surface of the Moon with trees and swamps. You can't farm it because it's too rocky and the summer is too short. Without a local food supply you can't build cities. Everything you need has to be imported from hundreds of kilometers away at great cost. The only thing you can do is sell minerals, oil and lumber for export which is what they do now. You can't even turn the resources into finished products locally because the labor and capital costs are far too expensive. When the resources are exhausted the people have no choice but to leave. The North is dotted with ghost towns.
A good junk is natural resources such oil fields and farm lands. Also protected forests and treaty territories.  Wintertime the temp can reach -40 or colder in northern parts.
There is a SOLUTION.  Leaving politics aside for a while, if that is even possible, one impressive way to 'turbocharge' the big landmass and its people, America and Canada, would be to wipe away the border which stunts progress, divides people and creates tension at times.   Elon or some other wealthy dude should be able to fork out some money to Canadian adults to make it happen since there are only about 30 mil. adults in the big land.   Canada has a shrinking GDP per capita, a weakening Canadian dollar, inflation issues, an increasing cost of living and housing crisis.  Some Canadians still think that they need a king ' hovering ' over them in these modern times who lives on a faraway island but what they really do need is lower taxes and a strong (American) military to protect the arctic.   On another note, just think of Canadians as well as people from other nations who have gone to America to seek their fame and fortune and have been successful.  A prime example would be S. African born Musk who spent three years in Canada, went south to America to seek his fame and fortune and is likely to become the world's first trillionaire.
 @John-nc4bl  You have some bad timing with your "wipe away the border" talk. The second Trump administration has promised to go deep into protectionism and tariffs. This will damage the US economy badly and the Canadian economy even worse. Watch out for double digit unemployment if Trump gets his way.
 @crptc5707  Trump is fighting back in the USA, but there's dozens of powerful people in the shadows fighting against him. Australia needs to find its version of Trump
Land isn't a house... someone has to build it. Dumb statement
@jonc2914  you think he can afford the land even.... let alone a house... You don't seem too smart
@JohnDoe-qh5xg a country having alot of land has no correlation to now having enough houses.
What corruption? Or rather whose? You have laws & a constitution making it impossible for your elected officials to be so. So it has to be the citizens. You may as well be Americans in your lack of courage when it comes to holding those accountable.
Well the cost of living seems high but then I remembered that they are using Canadian dollars.
Le probleme est que personne ne veut vivre la ou ya rien
 @MrScarduelli  Most people don't get that. They'll point fingers at landlords or labor shortages, but the core of the issue is regulation. If regulation increases the cost of building a new home, that cost gets passed onto the consumer.
People want to live in the cities where it's not as easy to build a ton of new housing.
As a American, I'm shocked that you guys are going through the same struggle, like something needs to been done with the economy. 🤔
Germany is facing a housing crisis too, but our country is 1/10th of canada's size and we have over 80 million people. and even with that average rent prices are still somewhat affordable for middle class.
Corruption? No. Justin is just too bad at his job to even be able to be corrupt. But i will say, his way of doing things isn't the best, and since covid hits, it had shown just how really bad from the start it was, by not being able to mitigate the consequence on the economy the pandemic created.
This just shows how little Americans know  What's going on in the states is not even close  LA the MOST expensive city is CHEAPER then Hamilton!!!!!!!  LA HAS MORE HOMELESS, BUT ALL OF CANADA CAN AFFORD TO MOVE THERE!!!  You guys have no idea how bad it is!!
Most of Canada is simply too cold to live in. That is why most people prefer to live in the south, along the US border.
 @salahelackad2005  And who would pay for this? The rich? Dream on.
Yall should move to America. Trump back inside so we getting thing fixes
 @qida2937  Large country yes, but how much of that land is suited well for humans?
as a canadian im also surprised cuz we hav more land than the us yet 10x less the population
@ even worse than increased costs are the limitation on the number of housing units, creating a shortage thus increasing prices even more.
😂😂😂😂😂You lot have got less people than here in England and waaaaaaaaaay more land, how on earth do you have a housing shortage?!🤔🤷🏾‍♂️
Same in Australia…. we only have 25 million ppl , but we cant afford homes
Another guy who doesn't know basic supply and demand and population growth rate. If you have a town with 100 people and suddenly over 2 years 10 people come to your town every year, regardless of how big is the town, that 100 people who also do other jobs won't never be able to build a place for them in only 2 years. Overdevelopment and housing crisis is simple math. Corruption is just the one who allows this amount of population to grow so fast.
It's not corruption, it's incompetence.  Too many levels of government, too many government workers, lack of leadership, and Pierre will be even worse
The problem is Density, if Canada wants to solve two problems, the previdenciary and immigrant issue that caused houses price increase, they can instead of funding a butload of funds on imigration for Vancouver, Toronto and Montreal, they could try to incentivate more immigration torwards less habitated cities, and invest on growing those, if this is not done soon, Canada will face problems like US and Brazil, that a few cities are responsible for almost all population.
Every Product is so expensive! People are going poor very poor, NO FUTURE for the average person! Only the rich can live nicely! 😢  BTW ; this is happening in Europe too.
 @martapriya98  this is happening worldwide, in big economic centers and in the third world, in Brazil for example it is equaly impossible to buy a house, a medium house in one of the most dangerous hoods of Brazil can cost up to a million reais, and minimum wage is 1400/month, average is 2400/month, 2400/month in CAD is the minimum wage, I saw a lot of people complaining that 200 CAD can only afford a small grocery basket, it is 300 Reais in here.  Not saying that Canada is not facing a problem, but literally any country around the world have the exact same issue, so between living in a dangerous, poor and overpopulated country, I rather live in a country that I will only face financial issues (That I believe is temporary, as at least Canada have a government that even failing, still works somehow)
Sounds like you don't want any more farms to produce food. More houses = less farms.
 @MyKonaRC  Ok I know that a lot of space is used for farming, but not 100% of the rural area.
Meanwhile, I am planning a move to south Florida in the USA. They run out of housing here? That’s okay, find an area where new housing can go up after doing things like environmental checks, start building, and you’ve hundreds or even thousands of new households to move people into. Like how some of the most desired areas in the Miami metro area are actually quite the drive away in places like Palm beach county.   For some reason, Canada will not do this.
Immigration is what Canada growth has been relying on… but have you maintained the selection standard of quality of immigrants? It’s not all immigrants that are causing the problems… don’t shift the blame… it’s you who allow those come in and not educating them or strict with penalty for their wrongs… how many drivers are not following the rules nowadays?! What is the crime rate now?
Canada doesn’t have “all that land”   It’s a small country underneath a vast tundra.
 @jennifermarlow. North America can’t build houses to last like Europe because they needed a quick solution during colonialism
The reason people can't afford houses is because everyone thinks they need to live in or beside a city.
GREED, GREED, GREED! That is what this country has come to. Everyone in this new generation wants to GET RICH QUICK!! Fuck working for it. That's for suckers! Just sit and wait for ma and pa to kick it and then you can start living your life on THEIR DIME!!
I'm from the Netherlands where land is very very scarse. I'm currently in Ontario and I'm shocked why houses are expensive. You guys have so much..  yes soooooo much land. And so much resources. We in the Netherlands have very little land very little resources. Canada has so much land and so much wood. What is the problem? I dont get it...
 @harmenjanwillems2018  Capitalism. Capitalism is an ugly, unsustainable business model. Netherlands may be a stronger social democracy than Canada with more social supports, but Europe, like Canada are Global North rich countries that exist with exploitation from the Global South. Problems aren't going away if we ignore the root problem.   Capitalism is the crisis. System change is needed. Haven't you seen Culture in Decline series yet? It's still there online, six episodes, from 10+ years ago. Still relevant.
​@Kilgor42  it seems like Vancouver and Toronto are falling into the same dilemma as Australia when it comes to lack of affordable housing. In major Australian cities like Melbourne and Sydney a couple or even single person could barely find a one bedroom apartment for under $2000.
​ @gilboman   500 k ? Cheap  for you , but not  for me. Cheap is 200k.
Just like your meth-head downstairs neighbor, Canada has not been building enough homes to keep up with the growing number of households. Nowhere near enough homes. And without enough homes, what homes are on the market get bid up to a crazy degree.
NOTA TO BE FORGETTING THAT ALL THAT OPEN LAND PROVIDES FOOD FOR THE WORLD.
I agree...and what Landlord adds rent on occupying tenants...I love capitalism but heck it's not even ethical...you only do that to new tenants
 @bradcanning875  Canada has many good features, including fewer programs to manipulate housing prices. But you don't own your own country... of course "a large part is unsettled", because you aren't allowed to own it!
my husband is a Canadian who cannot find a job in Canada...we dont need immigrants! he is a welding engineer..classically educated and degree certified
I hear that construction is over regulated and it takes up to 2 years to obtain a permit
Same here in America, the difference between Canada and America is way more overpopulated.
 @epicgamer-ui9mb  Yes, but that is all due to the simple fact that water is polar, and oil is non polar.
 @andalucish  Everyone can just live at the north pole right? Why not fix the problem instead of forcing people to live in places where people don't want to live. 🤡
 @bradcanning875  "We have a lot more freedom than the US." You're not sane, you are ignorant and you don't represent the views of real Canadians. I just wanted to be real clear about that!
 @debbielw16  All the provincial parties are bad and won't fix the issues so how is voting going to get Canadian's out of this? You're just telling people to waste their time and do nothing....
 @Theescapist_87  In other-words that 5 bedroom house for sub $200k is too expensive for most people who would need to take it. It's unaffordable for the area it's in just like everywhere else.
 @awesomeferret  Which far right positions does Trudeau hold? All of his positions are extremely progressive wtf are you talking about lol
 @showwhite7320  "Yes, the commute will suck but that's the price of prosperity with wealth inequality." Obviously at some point that becomes untenable. It's sound to say that Trump deporting millions of people who are taking up housing space and driving down wages will help and the alternative was far worse. Your opinion on these matters is just not well thought out...  Right now Trump is the biggest hope Canadians have. The threat of tariffs was contingent on Canada getting it's act together. Trump is providing pressure to force Canada to do the right thing for it's people. All the parties in Canada are colluding.
 @hi9580  "Because you all want to live in cities" This might come as as surprise to you, but it's not the 1920s anymore...
 @Richard-c5w  The vast majority of people do need to live in or near a city, that's common sense...
Yeah there’s more people in California than in Canada, and they’re actually better off financially. Even the “free” healthcare of the county hospitals in LA are better than what you guys get up there.  The land doesn’t mean anything if it’s a sheet of ice 8 months out of the year.
 @andalucish  how much does food cost there? An arm and a leg?   Maybe if u build an igloo and ice fish everyday it’s free, but…
 @Kilgor42  careful with that. People start to sprawl out from the big cities and they’ll be untouchable in a few years, too!
 @plutoniusis  Over here (Germany) it was solved by making the courtage payed by the seller (except the buyer ordered the agency) But after decades the way your "country"  do it until today.
And you're not even allowed to build your own house. Not even a small shitty one.
 @jayrideau  How do you figure corruption caused a lack of housing?
Thats BS My son and his girlfriend who are about 35 now own 3 houses. His girlfriend is buying 2  they got together and bought 1 more . Just bought a brand new car, One will soon be payed off, thye are putting that money onto the second one, when that one is bought they are putting the money onto the 3rd one. Her first house was a trailor, then she moved to a small town and bought her second, They are both being rented out now, Money from rent is paying the mortgage one. My son had grade 12 only worked his way up and is now making 28 dollars a hour, You have to work for what you want not expect it all to be given to you
"all that land" -  The houses people are complaining about are in densely packed cities. There is in fact a ton of cheap land to build on in Canada. People don't want to live in small towns though, they want to live in urban centers. There isn't a housing crisis, there is a reality crisis most people moving to Canada are facing. You can't come and in 1 generation compete for housing in  the most popular cities . The dream is alive, you just have to be realistic.
A lot of Canadian land isn't habitable, also we're losing farm land way too fast.
That's objectively false:  international metrics of corruption show Canada is pretty good actually (minus Quebec / Montreal).  Regulations are horribly onerous, but that's not corruption -- quite the opposite:  that is an attempt by government to ensure systems are regulated, but they end up going too far.
 @karentoffan7027  population is declining globally! the only over populated countries are China and India, but people are having less children Globally than ever before!
 @dissimulii  that's because refineries cost 20 billion to build and take over 10 years to build. Canada has one. We have a lot of dirty oil from the sands. It takes a lot of energy to get the oil out of the sand and even than its considered dirty. High cost to capture and worth a lot less to sell. You can't refine lumber, but we do produce it for our own market. Only specialty lumber is imported.
 @salahelackad2005  It’s not the governments who don’t want to build higher density housing, it’s the Canadian voters who don’t want to. Check out the zoning law in North America before you blame the gov for everything
 @thatundeadlegacy2985  - how about asking your land lord who might of been an immigrant how he was able to afford so many rentals, being from India I bet?
 @ntl9974  - Supply chains what on earth are you talking about.  It is the developers of housing projects, you know how he can state the obvious and you can't just look at any new construction project where housing is involved you think you can afford them at being for a small city at $750 up to $1.5 million for a semi detached ?
Unaffordable housing is an international issue. Not just Canadian. If anything Canada has handled it probably better than either Britain or the USA. The problem is corportation not wanting to pay living wages. These companies make extreme amounts of money but give roughly 30% of it back to their employees. PAY PEOPLE LIVING WAGES
I just found out in this video that canada doesnt even have 100 million residents. I knew you had less people than America, but I assumed it was at least similar. Less than 50M with an even harsher cost of living and housing crisis than we have in America? That's scary. Wishing you guys all the best.
​@AstroNope1  I agree with most but I think k corporations should be exclusively banned from owning single family homes.  Maybe maximum 1% of non-liquid assets.
The amount of land has nothing to do with the cost of housing 🤦🏼‍♀️
 @Ykahsuskwnbfduwi  It's not uninhabitable. It's just not developed for year round living. You can go live off the land if you're willing to give up modern technologies.
 @AstroNope1  It's the same here in Singapore except that the government owns public housing and dictates its prices as well as the placement of train stations. The duopoly/triopoly on groceries is as you stated too. Unfortunately, Singapore is a small city that can not afford to increase its population density any higher while still keeping vast swaths of precious land for private, sprawling housing (Bukit Timah, Serangoon Gardens) instead of high-rise apartments, and to even have more land already being used for paved asphalt than for residential footprint.
I didn’t realize it hasn’t even been 10 years with him in office. That’s rough
wow. those are shocking points. I live in. the US and I remember there was a time for a while when many of us here were envious of Canadian systems and life style
You're right, it's a head-scratcher.  Canada has a relatively low population density, but housing prices are sky-high.
The problem is every Canadian wants to live in Toronto, BC or bigger cities. It is time to spread across the country.
It’s our own fault and greed and that of corporations and the lack of involvement of government bureaucrats to stop the spiraling prices in homes. Some people buy homes and then sell them sometimes at a 30% higher than the going price, we even had bidding wars where some desperate individuals pay a premium for a home that was not even worth that money. However, that’s true capitalism. Canadians fell for it and now we complain…..sad 😢
It's not just immigration causing this issue. local governments have been leaning on land speculation as a means of growth which caused a bubble over the last 20 years. The only way out that I see is for the government to invest in a mass house building campaign like they did post ww2, setting the prices and stimulating production as they do it.
 @lorpis8284  Why should they do what you propose if they benefit more from land speculations? Maybe you really believe the Canadian government serves people? Only 30% of Canadians support Trudeau, but he is still in power. Isn't the rule of democracy the majority rule? And the second question: who supports him when he is still at his post?
 @robinhood5935  Political point. besides, the security costs of not doing it will be much higher than loosing their tax dollars when the full consequences come to bear. a disenfranchise population with nothing to loose doesn't paint a good future for any government.
 @lorpis8284  Or building large scale government apartment blocks like they did in the USSR or USSA.
We may have plenty if land but tons of it unlivable.
With "all that land"!  Spoken like a true foreigner!  First off much of Canada is frozen and not arable land secondly most foreigners want to excessively breed and live in cities.  What do you think that causes???  Housing shortages!  Not rocket science!
I will tell you why, this is all because of politicians. why ? just try to find the problem and solution , and you will say how they can't see this easy solution, than you will understand why the politicans are the cause. ( same here in my country , Algeria).
well, in fact we can afford houses, some can not, but We can, We definitely can...
It is exactly the same here in Australia and for exactly the same reasons.
No one is willing to acknowledge that ALL the public land in three provinces, BC included, are earmarked to go back to First Nations. I'm serious. NONE of the public land is being allocated for use by canadian non-1stnation. I spoke to Provincial government parks and rec management as to why not more parks are being made (as an example) and the answer was 1. Not allowed to allocate any new public land and 2. it costs too much to create and manage (primarily b/c it's all contracted out now).
 @karentoffan7027  Because Canadian baby boomers are the largest cohort and are aging.  Having only 2 workers for every one retiree  in ten years time will bankrupt the country because of the need to pay for pensions, hospitals and other services.  If there are no immigrants to take jobs like construction, health care, tech and more and thus pay taxes to keep the economy going then our country is up "sh't creek!  We already are short of doctors, pilots, engineers and skilled trades . It is going to get a lot worse.
​ @AstroNope1 foreign speculators are driving up real estate prices, over regulation in the construction sector, regulations that make logging the 2nd largest land area country in the world and creating cement, bricks, ect are the reason for the insane cost to build when it should be very cheap to build enough for such a small group on such a vast territory. There are too many conspiring together to fix prices and regulate anyone who might become competition from being able to create a business to fill needs for budget priced building supplies and decent homes.
In this video how they say to average age or working person was 1 to every 7 retired people and now it 2 working persons to 1 should tell them the problem. It's happening in America also. The cost of living is so high people are not having children. And it's because if they are not living in poverty, or if they did it would cause them too. So, you're not repopulating which is investing in your countries future. Thus, causing a flip on the age groups in society. From more retired than working class people. Importing more workers by immigration is not the answer maybe short term but the country still will not grow or support itself long term until society reproduces. But like all government they only care so they can provide for its own survival.
It's not corruption it's the cost of material and labour to build a house.  I built my own and saved a ton of money on labour.  Land is fairly cheap if it's not serviced in a city.  All the city infrastructure costs a lot to build.
It's got nothing to do with the amount of land. Part of the problem is that we sell our resources cheaper to other country's than we can buy it. Wood, Oil, Gas. We live in the land of trees, we're swimming in oil & gas. WTF!
My US friends used to tell me how badly they wanted to move here, until they heard me talk about real life here.
One thing you are wrong my friend. By the name and look of it, canada has that much land, but most of it is unhabitable. It is cold ice and snow and no access to pure water to drink, therefore impossible to have a washroom or shower in any of those remote areas. I know many indigenous people in Alberta, who go to the nearest locations to take shower, and when I asked them, they say their toilets are located outside of the house and has no water, therefore it is downhill shape, which makes the poo to run downwards, and towards the forest. This is what canadian government refuses to provide for them for a very very long time. And as the matter of fact, these people are not even far from a town at all, but still have nothing. canada lol land of garbage.
We have so much land, but not enough infrastructure or illegal workers to make it cheap to live in the city or the country. But Canada has fresh air, an abundance of fresh clean water, untouched nature reserves and great social services. You can't just measure wealth or "living" based on home ownership. Lots of people live really well who choose not to buy homes.
What is this a kindergarten comedy? There are so many downright weird comments here. It would take the rest of a person's life to untangle them.  Has anyone else noticed that? Where to begin?
The map shows US as "rich" and Canada as "poor". That simpistic view doesn't reflect reality, as both countries exhibit worse than 3rd world traits, such as tent encampments and massive homelessness in most cities. So, the truth is not so clear cut.
 @AstroNope1  yes I agree many living in one home like ants
Yes astronope what you mentioned does contribute to the housing crisis but so does massive amounts of immigration, million plus in short time without infrastructure. I’m probably not simple minded since I have 3 university degrees from Canada and I can see this.
Interest, credit, stock market have ruined the economy. Production should always be supported. Taxes are high. Countries should avoid luxury spending. If corruption ends, the economy will improve. Honest, truthful policies are very important.
Tarion was made by developers to oversee developers. But yeah blame immigrants
Is the situation any better in Ukraine?. My parents immigrated from UKRAINE AND NEVER LOOKED BACK. I've traveled throughout Ukraine, and the standard of living doesn't compare to Canada. Consider yourself lucky to be in Canada,
Sorry … bs … Canada had 21 mil. people in 1970 and took in a massive number of people since them. If Canada is short on homes, it maybe should put a break on further immigration? I‘m not in any position to tell Canadians what to do, but it‘s not a surprise, that most of that new citizens head to the big cities.
Supply and demand is not necessarily corruption. Most of us want to live in cities and that drives up costs.
Why life in Australia has become Impossible  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P2chYfJ4cRs  Why living in Canada has become Impossible  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eJHm03osbHc
 @qida2937  not many want to live in the "North" with it's brutal temps, but also most ppl need to live within reasonable travel distance to "good" paying jobs. No major companies are building factories or any other type of employment related infrastructure in the North. Hence, not many ppl live there.
Too cold for me.  Sorry.  Id visit or have a summer home there.  But i like modest weather.  I dont shovel and hate maryland.   Florida doesnt allow enough land and is too hot.  They didnt fix my car so i couldnt work and pay taxes.
I am from America and I own a business since Canada told Trump they will not help secure the border. I decided to pull all business from Canada. Canadian companies beg me to not do it and said that they would likely lose a couple of hundred employees if I did, but I said America First and if Canada won’t help us, I won’t help you. So I no longer import anything from Canada
They mean: No "Real" hope and no change"! They are saying "keep voting for me and/or my party, and at least you will have false hope, while waiting for the change you will never get. A clever play on words.
We need people to group up. This is getting out of hand for not just America but Canada as well. Cause you realize everything is getting worse. And we need to gather up the capable people. The people that not just realize whats going on in terms of everything political but also everything that is collapsing. Otherwise we are gonna continue taking harder and harder hits. And younger generations are at the forefront. Don't forget.
 @markfennell1604  Yes I know people who have, but with the war in Ukraine, is it safe?  I wonder.  Life in Europe has become more expensive too.
I work at a food bank and we have soldiers..... MEN AND WOMEN who put their life on the line and come to a food bank to get food because the rent is just too fucking high...... I.... I am at a lose for words.
 @markfennell1604  Because I am proud to be Canadian, and I love Canada. It's just been derailed. Hope isn't completely dead yet, and maybe when it is I'll leave. And Europe has a whole host of other issues too, there was a full-blown Pogrom in Amsterdam a couple days ago, their immigration situation is a nightmare too.
 @markfennell1604  Europe has lots of problems too. It's not necessarily better there than in Canada or the U.S. I'd live in the U.S. anytime over anywhere in Europe, tbh. The U.S. still has cities that are affordable and has a big job market (e.g., Atlanta). It's easier to become successful and rich (hence, lots of dentists flock from the U.K. and lots of medical doctors flock from Canada).
 @pinweee7026  Imagine dying for capitalist tyrcoons/corpos/landlords interest while you are starving, Police/Military be like:
Oare? Ca sa aduci o lume intreaga la colaps exact asta iti trebuie.  De cate ori ma gandesc sa ne mutam inapoi, dar este si adevarat ca suntem si aproape de Rasia.  Mancateas!
 @expo1706  It has also gotten way more expensive too, but in terms of war, the future's uncertain, especially now with Trump winning
Have you considered moving to a cheaper country where people live longer and the cost of living isn't as high as western nations? Better food, kinder people, and usually lesser taxes.
Oh, just saw your other reply. In terms of the war, that usually wouldn't really affect someone with some agency or economic mobility to relocate or situate themselves in a region not directly impacted, so that shouldn't be a big factor, IMO. But even still, Donald Trump has been elected and already we're beginning to see foreign adversaries and allies alike more frequently mention the terms they'd like to hear in potential negotiations to outcome of his presidency, which means I think a lot of the world is depending on America to help soften tensions. That is not to say war is completely impossible, but its widely expected that would-be military initiatives will be stopped and ongoing conflicts will be quashed within days or weeks of his incumbency.  That is all irrelevant though personally, because it is better to live in less popular, more remote countries who never engage in major worldly hostilities and who not only remain neutral but tend to avoid involvement whatsoever. These are all smaller economies  sure, but that is also a good thing. I think too many people from big economies look down on such countries and think, "Ewww, they're second-class", thinking that legacy brand countries are any better, to their own detriment.
​ @markfennell1604 how about Africa? DRC must be a cheap place to live, why didn't all Canadians think of this earlier.
An American here.  I did not realize the problems Canadians were facing, and I sympathize with you.  I was born in 1949, and my childhood and youth were spent in favorable economic times.  You are facing tougher times.  Hopefully there will be a solution, but it would probably take at least a decade.
 @syatek  Respectfully, it's literally nowhere NEAR as bad for you being in Texas. Just an example of all the secondary expenses that are a complete nightmare here too, I did the currency-adjusted math on the price of gas here compared to Memphis where my friend lives (where gas is more than it is in most of Texas) and our gas is literally DOUBLE the price of gas in Memphis. Groceries for 1 person for a week easily cost around $130 USD. The cost of living crisis in Canada is not just reflected in our rent, and the pathetic management of the return to normalcy from Covid in Canada literally destroyed our economy when comparing it to America. I have family in one of Texas's most expensive cities, and it's easy to compare as one cousin works in the same industry as my brother, makes about the same money adjusted for inflation, and he's got a much easier time financially than my brother does.
I know what your winning ticket is James. 8 letters M A N I T O B A
 @jamesf4103  what are you proud of exactly? Not much to be proud of as a Canadian these days bud! Trud has decimated anything to be proud of as a Canadian.
​ @markfennell1604  if I didn't have family that I don't want to throw to the dogs by leaving I would
Same here.   I'm a Canadian-American who grew up in SE Florida where there are many other Canadians but they want as much as Hong Kong, Tokyo or even New York to live there now so I moved to the Southwest Coast where it is more boring but at least is still South Florida.
im canadian, from quebec. born into a below average family, both parents poorly educated, raised as if we were quite poor. did studies,graduated, earned a measly 35K/year  was not satisfied, went back to school again in seach of a better job. graduated, struggled 4 years till i get my first phone call. landed it. now i make 175K a year, will reach 200K next year. had all the background to become a good for nothing, yet still managed to make it.  there's still a way to get a better tomorrow, but people are stupid and want everything without the efforts.  cost you 3 300$ a month to live in toronto? how about you just move somewhere cheaper? i got my house 7 years ago and my mortgage is below 900$/month and it's now a crackhouse either. people want to live like influencers, thats the problem.
Try to move to Mexico. Quality of live has significantly improved, we also have free healthcare and free education, and food is very cheap. That's why many retirees or remote workers come here, boosting the economy. I'd just stay away from overpopulated cities like Mexico City as rent has become extremely expensive (even for foreigners).
immigration is like the lottery. not everyone can immigrate. help people in their countries
It is better to be poorer with social peace than a rich economy with lots of problems
 @fabianustertius6460  I know 2800$ a month for rent...... its just fucking stupid, so imagine? I dont need to, My sister went though, and I even talked to my family to help her
 CreamPuff-ek8fd  you have no desire for that but the question is, is that a minority opinion? Next election will give the answer.
 @yourmainful  yeah man. I refuse to fly a Canadian flag anymore.
dude, that dream was a big lie, and you all fell for it never seeing the truth and questioning the system. now you wake up
move?... naaaaaah I rather complain on the internet. LMFAO @ higher education
 @stretchstrange  only a coward thinks running is a solution in this case
To back up what you are saying, My wife and I bought our house in Calgary in 1997 for $129900.00 It is currently worth $600000.00  I would never be able to buy it again. I thank God we have it payed off. What chance do my children have of owning a house today?
The housing crisis was slowly simmering even before the immigration boom. Hopefully, the positive is that we'll now see massive reforms with zoning and construction.
​ @markfennell1604 that is coming to an end also. Germany is facing mass layoffs in auto manufacturing and the govt just collapsed. I expect more changes in the rest of Europe.
​ @jamesf4103 yes that thing in Amsterdam was caused by unruly behavior of the Israeli soccer team. Bashing taxis and ripping flags off buildings then they got stopped for their bad behavior. As usual the culprits twist the story
​@fabianustertius6460 that's such an childish take. Are there greedy companies.? Yes.  But we are also taxed to death while the government wastes money and keep giving themselves raises with our tax dollars. Which is more greedy?
I know how you feel as I am in a very similar situation. I am actually going to be moving to Europe (Serbia) next year as the situation is way better there then here is every respect (housing, cost of living, healthcare, etc). After evaluating my options in this country, I decided to move lol
It doesn't exist at all. I'm in the same boat as you. I earn 6 figures (on good years) and my wife and I aren't having kids because we can't afford to... I'm not trying to sound nihilist but... i think we were lied to. Our parents were lied to.  We're going to move to Australia because we can actually afford to buy a home with 60,000 down and work there...
​ @markfennell1604 One does not simply move to europe. We arent entitled to just magically move to a new nation with a completely different language. Nevermind the fact that many credentials only count in your own nation.
​@fabianustertius6460  No imagination needed , it's happening on a large scale! 😢😢
im in the top 10% of earners here and anything other than a 1 bedroom shoebox where ill be a debt slave the rest of my life for is an utter pipe dream. its fucking sad, im losing all motivation for this shit, take one step forward and get knocked 3 steps back,
 @jamesf4103  bro europe don't only revolve around one city ,  there is 27 country in europe DUH american still don't know this whayt they teach you at school?
 @jelenajm1160  Good move! I moved back to Hungary last year, and I can afford a much better life from my Hungarian government pension, than I could from my Canadian wages (worked a full-time job). One of the best decision I ever made.
@ I heard Amsterdam is great abut harder to get citizenship
 @markfennell1604  everywhere in europe is fine tbh i mean about cost of living , but immigration has become too much
You can't mix the American dream and the Canadian as being the same.  The American dream is liberty based, the Canadian dream is all about being morally superior and dependent on the government.  That's what got us 9 years of Trudeau, who has had abysmal results in everything and has nothing to sell other than being woke and fabulous.  We don't know what "higher education" you achieved, whether it's in actual demand or not, or whether you're actually good at it. Those are very important factors, far more than just "getting an education".
 @jamesf4103 oh my goodness! I agree 100%! We live in Texas on one income and are very comfortable. My husband doesn’t make a lot but he makes  enough and we are able to save about 2k a month after all expenses. So, no it is not comparable to Canada at all!
I'm a dual citizen and I left my home town after college. I can't afford to move back little on buy there. It's insane and way out of control. It's sad. I'm at least someone who enjoys the nomad life, and wouldn't mind just traveling for the rest of my life. Still trying create work that allows me to do that, but I think I'm on the right path now.
 @jamesf4103  That is a disgusting lie put about by Israeli actors, get some real news and educate yourself.
I noticed you said "higher education" but didn't state the degree. Makes me assume you got something as useful as basket weaving and thought you deserved a high paying job because of it. Finding it baffling how many people think getting a degree automatically makes them a highly skilled worker. No, dance study doesn't make you a skilled worker
with higher education, you, just as i must realize that canada is not a country to invest in. canada is blahhh, fuck it. since the late 19th century its been crap, and it still crap.
 @markfennell1604  How? I could not find a way to move (legally) to the USA, how could there be possibility for me to move to Europe?  Let me know if you know..
 @성이름-p9t6t  We're not welcome in the US tho.. I've tried. There's no legal pathway for me to move to the US unless I want to never ever work their. Even if I bring my kids, they have no pathway to citizenship as a Canadian.
 @syatek  Bruh I can literally find houses in Texas for $50k right now. Don't even try to compare your amazing State to Canada; you couldn't imagine.  I've worked and lived here my whole life; I make $100k/year and I cannot or will never be able to own a house; ever. My kids probably will never, either.  We're not the same.
 @Socooomfy  To have no work and be eaten by bears? bruh..
 @MichealWalls  show me a zillow link for a 50k house bro. dont assume so much. no one wants to live in the middle of nowhere. some west texas shack does not count.  my household income is over $300k and we cant buy anything decent in great areas in Dallas or Austin.
Meanwhile we watch non-English speaking newcomers driving 100K vehicles and building multi-million dollar homes all on our government.. craziness!
 @xxkwijiboxx  What? Ok... Let's just say you are right and luck had NOTHING to do with it (which is impossible, how were you able to go back to school? In what year did you do that again? Where is the school? Who paid your rent while studying? How much was the cost of food then? Male or female? Good looking? Knew someone is the company that hired you or the job you had while studying? Bought your house in 2017 AKA before all of that nonsense ??? Etc.... YOU WERE LUCKY.) So.... Anyway, let's say you were not lucky and it's all because you are such a hardworking and skillfull person: you are still not acknoledging how things have become 10 times harder for the younger generations.
​ @markfennell1604  Europe houses are expensive! Try to buy a good house in Germany for good price, good luck!
It's shocking to me how many people can't see the direct correlation between leftist governance and these issues 🤔
​ CreamPuff-ek8fd If u are giving the "try sacrificing" advice, you just dont get it. You either grew up in a different era, had wealthy parents or were exceptionally gifted and lucky.  Even on the tightest possible budget, a studio apartment in a Canadian city simply costs more in rent than a low income can afford. And low-income jobs have to be filled by someone (if u want ur kids to have teachers or you want a waiter to serve you at a restaurant...). What you are really saying is, "Have you tried saving up by living on the street?"
It's cyclical. You think it was any easier for people to live through the two world wars? The Depression? Multiple recessions throughout the 80s and 90s?
@robertlee4172  Depression and World Wars, probably not. But 80s & 90s? Yes, absolutely. During those eras, as long as you could get a job and keep it, you could live comfortably - people with small incomes bought small houses, ppl with big incomes bought big houses, and ppl with average incomes afforded average things.  The difference today is that unless you have rly high income or family wealth, you buy no house at all, and struggle to even afford rent.
​@EdwardMcClung  read up on Australia's current housing crisis.  I believe it is more of a multinational problem caused by multinational conglomerates.  "Never enough profit" is slowly strangling the working class in all developed countries.
Damnit, it should work and we All should be able to have a home no matter our income,most people want to start a family but it’s so hard now our grown kids never get to hardly experience this😢  they still live at home because of the cost and us older parents and grandparents are aging out
 @markfennell1604  then we have to leave our families and loved ones. That is hard too. Plus, all money goes to surviving, so we have none left to move away 😅
 @markfennell1604  why not just have the country orient itself toward serving the interests of its citizens instead of pushing global citizen bullshit
FYI the same thing happened in USA in the 1980's.  A sea change happened when people started looking at their homes as a plan B retirement account.  Perhaps you've heard about the serial housing bubbles, reports of being forced from neighborhoods due to gentrification, stagnant wages for a few decades, and the unholy alliances that take place when real estate developers and local governments have no interest in building for the population most in need of housing.  McMansions offer better revenue in their minds, until they run out of millionaires to buy their whales.   The only meaningful fixes I've seen is when no new permits are granted for anyone who isn't supplying low income housing.  When rent controls get imposed on landlords.  When suburbs get expanded augmented with public transportation.  Take a look at California real estate market and know that most people who are leaving are doing so because most of their income is eaten alive by real estate costs, and places like San Diego would rather not have low income people around.  The ripple effect of displaced populations isn't limited to metropolitan areas either.  People who grew up rural can't afford to live rural anymore either.
I work for a city that I can't afford to live within 100KM of.
 @markfennell1604  I live in France, and let me tell you that it's the same thing here.
There you go.  I see these comments and I shrug my shoulders and nod my head because it's the same "down here."
 @huntfishexplore7636  If you mean where you should move to, that depends on your lifestyle, ambitions, and interests. Knowing myself, my lifestyle and interests alone make me best fit for places that are hot, tropical, subtropical, or non-snowy/cold that are Spanish-speaking, Southeast Asian, or where English is a second or third language. Most countries outside of the far west (and even many in the far west) are more conservative than Canada, which to family-oriented, traditional, freedom-loving people like myself means a lot. Part of me really and truly prefers a country that is an island, and another prefers one that no one ever really talks about/hates/knows much about besides general stereotypical stuff. The country my sister wants to move to is one where, unlike in Canada, entire families can survive off of less than CAD$1,800 per month, but unfortunately, outsiders cannot currently get citizenship because you must be born there + have other natural ties, or apply/request permission as a married couple of multiple years. This happened relatively recently...after their LP ("Lib Progressive"  party in English) lost to their equivalent of a Conservative-Populist party. So, as you can see I just said that I prefer places with stronger family-oriented traditionalist values, but that ironically comes with some downsides that directly affect people like my sister and even me if I ever wanted to live there as a citizen and not some temp visitor or mere tourist. Other places, which I like, require me to give up my U.S. citizenship and Canadian citizenship (not specifically these two, but those are the only citizenships I currently hold, and where I to move there, I'd have to surrender all of that). Personally, I am fine with giving up a U.Sm citizenship for tax reasons but more hesitant about the other one since I was born there.
There is a SOLUTION.  Leaving politics aside for a while, if that is even possible, one impressive way to 'turbocharge' the big landmass and its people, America and Canada, would be to wipe away the border which stunts progress, divides people and creates tension at times.   Elon or some other wealthy dude should be able to fork out some money to Canadian adults to make it happen since there are only about 30 mil. adults in the big land.   Canada has a shrinking GDP per capita, a weakening Canadian dollar, inflation issues, an increasing cost of living and housing crisis.  Some Canadians still think that they need a king ' hovering ' over them in these modern times who lives on a faraway island but what they really do need is lower taxes and a strong (American) military to protect the arctic.   On another note, just think of Canadians as well as people from other nations who have gone to America to seek their fame and fortune and have been successful.  A prime example would be S. African born Musk who spent three years in Canada, went south to America to seek his fame and fortune and is likely to become the world's first trillionaire.
 @markseehawer3762  Congratulations on your debt free house. Here's hoping you and your heirs will always be able to afford the property taxes and utilities.
"Compassion" from a politicians mouth = Forcefully taking money out of YOUR pocket and giving it to someone thats bad with money
 @johndoe-kh9fu No stray here dude America is a better and I’m Canadian. Long story short if it wasn’t for my wife not wanting to leave because of family I’d be applying for a US work visa tomorrow.
Don't wrap America up into Canadian failures. America is far from perfect, but Canada is going through a corrupted situation that is just getting started.  America will continue to be the power that she is while Canada continues to stumble.
This is nowadays the standard feeling of most western Europeans. Bad politicians bring bad times, just like that.
That's what happens in a socialist society  What happened to the Canadians who laughed at us in 2020 when America was saying we don't want Socialism & Canadians laughed & said We Love it!! Where are they now, I guess they're not laughing anymore & realize maybe we were right!!
That's what happens in a socialist society  What happened to the Canadians who laughed at us in 2020 when America was saying we don't want Socialism & Canadians laughed & said We Love it!! Where are they now, I guess they're not laughing anymore & realize maybe we were right!!
As a citizen of a modern nation state you actually are entitled to the government doing the bare minimum to protect and serve you
Unless that opportunity was investing in bitcoin early. That's the only one and it takes a certain mindset to achieve that. People with the K-12 20th century way of thinking would all be nocoiners or bitcoin holders in an era where it's too late.
 @markfennell1604 it’s always a hard life for a new comer to a new place except you bring a lot of money in!
In my country it's even worse like 70% of salary are going to rent get mortgage impossible too get visa and leave this place impossible because you will be canceled because you don't have enough money and other
Yeah, my hometown saw a 300% increase in the cost of houses in 2 years. Rents went more than 175-200% higher too.  I feel you. I had to leave my home town, possibly permanently
You need to be willing to move. I'm a biology prof. I decided I was willing to move anywhere in Canada that I could find a job and afford a place to live. I now teach at a small campus and earn more than most of my colleagues do in major urban areas. Two years ago I bought a large five bedroom house on five acres of forest for less than half what a small bungalow with no yard would cost in a major city. The opportunities are out there.
Every Product is so expensive! People are going poor very poor, NO FUTURE for the average person! Only the rich can live nicely! 😢  BTW ; this is happening in Europe too.
 @peterjohnson1734  but not proper geography as i see fils de catin :))
 @markfennell1604  canadians dont need to move all the way to europe. canadians if they're as bad off as they say can simply move to saskatchewan, houses are still 200k. highest rent i payed for a furnished suite was just short of 1400$ and you can find stuff for 800 that is decent, any lower it's likely gross. the only thing expensive, like anywhere else on the continent, is groceries. even then if you're spending reasonably you can get away with 150 per week in groceries, although mine are half that.
 @markfennell1604  Bacause you are our immigrants. You are driving our house costs incredibly high. ;)
 @markfennell1604 Europe is not cheaper in any ways shape or form, besides yall hate immigrants also
Getting a house in the US isn’t impossible, I never knew it was that hard for Canadians 😂 I’m never leaving now
​ @stephenramos2824 why defend a corporate sector? They get great govt subsidies, pay little tax, cooperation between corporations and govt bypass help for middle and working classes. Many of them left with free trade policies. Watch Prof. Wolf for a more realistic view. Tucker Carlson has some very good people guest as well.
hey I‘m from China ，people here suffer from housing price too，I also have higher education and might need spend all my 200 months of salary to buy a house in a major city. May I ask you how many months of salary need to buy one in your country in average? just want to know the comparison and sorry for my bad English
Is there a 401K type investment plan (stock market vs. tax payer pension) in Canada. The US 401K is killing the country by starving the government and inflating the stock market so that investment banks can buy up housing. Thus, inflated housing prices.
Facts...im in the U.S and its the same here...my company is making record profits while most employees can't even afford to rent a place on their own, nevermind trying to buy a house.
Well, you know it is a big country and there are lots of beautiful places with lots of opportunity. But if you are fixated on the city you were born in and not the country then you will never come to see the true beauty of Canada. It's a lot of land and few people, but you all want to live on the same street. Boggles the mind I tell you. The dream is out there pal, not in your parents' basement!
@ how about you actually defend your point instead of just screaming maga?
Imagine now for the people born in broken households..with hard jobs thst destroy their bodies (constructions and whatnot) and for those jobs where they build the building people lives in they themselves wont be able to afford a home or a condo they own..when they built them..
my husband is a Canadian who cannot find a job in Canada...we dont need immigrants! he is a welding engineer..classically educated and degree certified
 @fabianustertius6460  "Imagine dying for capitalist tyrcoons/corpos/landlords interest while you are starving, Police/Military be like:" like in Communist countries...
move to South Africa and live like a king with your USD
 @markfennell1604  XD. Really? Tried the UK? We're in the same state. One root cause.......
Thats BS My son and his girlfriend who are about 35 now own 3 houses. His girlfriend is buying 2  they got together and bought 1 more . Just bought a brand new car, One will soon be payed off, thye are putting that money onto the second one, when that one is bought they are putting the money onto the 3rd one. Her first house was a trailor, then she moved to a small town and bought her second, They are both being rented out now, Money from rent is paying the mortgage one. My son had grade 12 only worked his way up and is now making 28 dollars a hour, You have to work for what you want not expect it all to be given to you
The same is happening here in New Zealand!! We all need to stand up & kick them out of power!!
 @expo1706  yes. prices rose at least 30% from 2022. Mainly due to there is no more cheaper russian energy...
 @Crocodilio222  Sorry every in Canada is an immigrant doesn t matter what color your are
Canadian dream never existed but it is true the quality of life and cost of life has deteriorated exponentially under turdeau. The american dream however is very much still alive, anyone who disagrees is simply ignorant to the opportunities available in the US.
 @OhNoYouDidntDZ  Exuse me the Cnadian dream existed thats whhy my father imigrated here, ANd all my other ancestors , They settled Canada to make a better life for themselves.  So ya don t spread lies. Canadia dream in Canada is alive and well
 @OhNoYouDidntDZ  if you believe in American Dream you  must be in coma...🤣
A higher education means nothing.  Anyone can memorize shit and pass exams.  Apprentice plumbers make 50K.  You could have afforded a house, you just blew your money on other stuff.  Face facts.
You should have received a degree in political science. That is the true way of getting ahead in any democratic country. For your information there are 367772 public servants in Canada as of 2024. That is  an increase of 10525 over 2023 and an increase of close to 45000 from 2020. The AVERAGE wage is $ 142,600.00 and the yearly budget totaled $ 5.8 BILLION for 2023. They have ALL medical paid, indext pension plan, sick days ( estimate 12 per year ) and   now many work from home. That is one of the reasons Canada  is in the poor house. In business we called this MISMANAGEMENT  and employees would loose their jobs for such poor performance. Canada the country is good as well as most citizens. Our problem is the rotten poliitcians.
American dream is fine. There are many places in the States where an average person can still make it, get an education, decent wage, property ownership. In Canada that's pretty much gone.
 @markfennell1604  Where you getting info? :D Lot of europe can be relatively cheap if you live from average canadian salary, but housing prices are on historical top + its less space than canda... Its jsut gonna get worse
The AMERICAN dream is still alive and well my friend, come on down
 @conradkelly8101  Do you know how hard it is to move to the states?
 @xxkwijiboxx  I was searching for another wise person to make the comment about moving elsewhere rather than Toronto or Vancouver (not sure where the OP is from).  Might be scary to do it but it's a necessity, has been for quite some time now 10y +.
But wait a minute! If you’re not entitled to afford a house after decades of work. The country is also not entitled for you to work.
I was born in Toronto and lived there until I was 20. Moved out to Saskatchewan 16 years ago and it was the best thing I ever did . Actually able to afford a home
I know exactly how you feel....  I'm from the SF Bay Area!
 @jamesf4103  I believe real estate is not that expensive in Fort McPherson.
Take America out of that it is still possible in America. There are places in America where is still possible to buy a home not in Canada
Dream is the definitive word in your diatribe. You can still work hard, own property, invest your money and retire with enough to last you the rest of your life - if you care to.
​ @EdwardMcClung 6 figures is so ambiguous, how much exactly do you make?
It does in America (USA) - especially once again after 2024 is over.
I'm very lucky to have a parent who owns a home here. It feels kinda shameful to still live at home as a twenty year old, but most friends my age also still live with their parents. My grandparents are the only thing keeping my family here. My mother and I want to move to either Mexico or Germany once they've passed away, because we're both familiar with the languages and cultures. I can't imagine ever being able to afford leaving my mom's house while we're still living in Canada.
@jamesf4103 with a monthly average salary of $5,400 canadian can not buy a home that costs 100-150K? can not be truth!
 @markfennell1604   a monthly average salary in canada is $5000 and are you saying in EU is much more? :D houses in canada costs 100K only
It’s maybe a Shack in the Forest that you will get for that Price lol
 @graviolaguanabana4579  Where the hell in canada is a home 100k? Are you out of your mind? My parent's starter home in the early 90's was 250k in the city we live in, and it was a 1 bathroom 1300 sqft home.
 @markfennell1604  I look up the cost of buying an apartment in Stockholm, Copenhagen, Toronto and Vancouver. Stokholm and Copenhagen are much more money pr square meter. 1500 vs 1000 cad/m2 range.
The map shows US as "rich" and Canada as "poor". That simpistic view doesn't reflect reality, as both countries exhibit worse than 3rd world traits, such as tent encampments and massive homelessness in most cities. So, the truth is not so clear cut.
​ @markfennell1604  because we're not in the EU.They don't hand out work visas at customs
This is a much worse problem in Canada. I have several friends who are Canadian who are here for the reasons in the video.
Interest, credit, stock market have ruined the economy. Production should always be supported. Taxes are high. Countries should avoid luxury spending. If corruption ends, the economy will improve. Honest, truthful policies are very important.❤❤
Amen to that cause it is non existent. I did what was right yet I am living with my parents.  I can’t even rent as a single person.
Actually since you are a Canadian citizen you ARE entitled to certain things in CANADA.
​ @markfennell1604  Also, to James' point, if everyone leaves before any part of the public has a chance to take a stab at steadying the ship, then course correction, it will make a failed state in time
Its really not as bad as you think, we are definitely in the pain right now and will be for a bit longer into the future, but what Canada did was side step the global collapse of demographics that most countries are going to have. We fixed it and i promise things will start to get better soon and they will continue to get better as they get worse and worse for other countries in the world.   There is a cost for everything though and the price we are paying for it right now, it hurts certainly, but its much better than the price would be in the future.   Unfortunately you likely have no idea what i am talking about, but let me try and explain.  Canada has been on a non-stop importation of people in numbers that no other country in the world has ever seen in the past 2 centuries. While this does cause some pain in various ways, it makes things like our real estate market insane, it lowers productivity significantly across all sectors it drains capital funding and increases the need for discretionary spending.   So why i am claiming this is a good thing?   Demographics, basically our country like most developed countries had way too many people entering the age of retirement with very few people at young age being born to replace future generations. This means as more of the population shifts to retired old people, things like our consumption, productivity and obligations would go out of control.  The cost per person to maintain medical care and etc. would of approached nearly 200% of what it was 10 years ago from what it would be in 10 years.   The insane number of people we imported though, they are better than children, they only disrupt our economy for 2-8 years instead of say 18-25 before a baby becomes productive.   Yes immigration needs to slowdown but we have already fixed our demographic problem, its just a matter of time before things here improve and they will do rapidly compared to other 1st world countries with only maybe France being able to hold on.   Canada is set to explode into an absolute economic juggernaut and likely be one of the greatest world powers 20-30 years from now, being an actual legitimate rival to the power our next door neighbor has in the world today.
The poor get poorer while the rich get richer, it is the story of the haves and have nots, it has been written and it has been spoken, oh ye of little faith, there is only one way to overcome these problems…truth.
There you go, this is also true in America. We outsourced our jobs instead of finding ways to pay people but keep them here so that people can have decent living conditions. The government in alot of progressive countries is fucked right now for alot of the same reasona
People aren't worth more money than the work they perform.   People refusing to work minimum wage jobs when they are only worth minimum wage -- deserve what came to them.  Welcome to modern times, just like old times, you have to earn your keep -- only difference is now you spend that time in an office and not in the fields.
 @UpYourArsenal  That is such a reductivist way of looking at it. Bah! As if people were commodities, to be traded on a market. As if God's invisible hand perfectly determines and distributes one's worth judging through "the work they perform." And as if this whole capitalist model has not already been replaced by a techno-feudalist system,  where, millions of people who "did what they were supposed to", still end up in dire financial situations. And as if millions of people not still slaved away in fields or factories or mines. Shame on you, sir, shame on you indeed.
Same in Germany, they say shortage of skilled workers, but salaries aren't rising.
 @UpYourArsenal  That is a very incorrect and widely unempathetic response, and very unCanadian of you. If you are blaming people poorer and worse of than you, then you are being manipulated by someone with more power and wealth than you. Asking for a livable wage as a minimum is not much to ask. Speaking AS AN ENGINEER Canadian companies in comparison to the rest of the world VASTLY underpays the majority of us, a lot of us go overseas for a year or 2 then come back to negotiate a higher salary because we would not get one working here alone. Its not just highchool minimum wage jobs that were being underpaid, and even if it were someone still needs to bag groceries, someone still needs to take the trash every week, people still need washrooms cleaned and working those jobs should not keep you insanely under the poverty line.
I think the forced minimum wage was a big problem actually. It eliminated the low skill jobs for teens to cut their teeth on. Now instead of teens learning to make coffee at Tim's for a year or 2 til they graduate and move on, employers can't afford to keep training new people for $15+ an hour. So they hire desperate immigrants to work fulltime for low wages.
 @UpYourArsenal So you're saying as a teacher when I take care of precious kids, the future generations, the salary of teachers in Canada is actually good compensation for what they do? Ok then 👌
Plenty of people will do shitty jobs... If the pay is right. But companies will rather employ immigrants or outsource work before raising salaries.
 @kaitb07 Before I left Canada I worked three minimum  wage jobs specifically. I disagree. There should be different minimum wages dependent on different job categories and criteria. Its the one minimum wage rate for ALL jobs that's the problem.   Like at the top of my head, I do think fast food service workers, teens or otherwise, should be paid more than a someone sitting in an unbusy mom and pop or something.
 @AletheAce   In the past, if you didn't do work - you didn't have food to eat and survive.  Just because we as humans have reached the point of being able to produce things in bulk, does not mean any person is entitled to those products who did not WORK for it.  All people are entitled to nothing in life, earn what you get - or get nothing at all.
 @UpYourArsenal  Troll...  You do realize that if minimum wage kept up with inflation it'd be closer to $30/hr now, right?
 @kaitb07  Tim Hortons literally makes record profits every year (except this last 2 quarters). They can pay people better, and can pay to train people, they just choose not to!
 @historyindecay3701   Abolishing minimum wage will do more to improve your life than anything else.   It's actually the minimum wage that's harming you right now - minimum wage is the problem, not the solution.  Source:  Look at the history of minimum wage, and see how destructive it has been every time it increases.
the idea was that free public services are so perfect that you don't need "high" (after taxation) wage
 @UpYourArsenal  that's a lie, i worked at a meat processing plant as a maintance mechanic. During COVID wages were around 32/h, now with immigrants and people getting 750$/week to study exactly the same thing i paid out of my pocket for, they fired alot of people and now pay 26/h for the same positions.  Price double, wage go down 20%. Guess i just became a worthless employee that doesn't earn the same wage for the same job anymore.
I work in a very high paying field and year after year over of our top risks has been the lack of trades. We pay six figures to people right out of high school but can't get people to move to remote locations. Immigration has played a big role in keeping us afloat.
immigration is like the lottery. not everyone can immigrate. help people in their countries
Absolutely...and with Peter P's generous GST giveaway for the rich to build houses but not reduce the rents lins the pockets of the developers yet again
“Diversity is our strength because my Filipinos found out what a union is.”
This has become a template for every neo-liberal government in the anglosphere.
 @Heeta.  have you ever thought of removing the source of the problem like any functional adult would? if rich people are the sole reason this stuff happens and rich people demonstrably dont participate in any functional capacity in producing profit, why do you think they must exist in perpetuity? how can you not see that they are  orchestrators and beneficiaries of all human suffering on earth today?
@Kaitb07 Then have a look at Italy if you think there shouldn't be a minimum wage. Does it work for them? I'll give you a resume: it doesn't. You're also confusing minimum wage with living wage. The minimum wage is BELOW the living wage, unless you work remotely from the middle of a small town or an underdeveloped region.
@Kaitb07 Someone else actually mentioned that Tim's in your example is a multi million dollar company on a rise, who is nothing but a clow claiming to not be able to pay minimum wage (because they'd rather pay people nothing).  I also don't understand why students fresh out of uni should necessarily be synonymous with minimum wage? Some do very well in academics and also acquire work or volunteering hours during their studies, or are energetic and beneficial to a company in general (moreso than stressed Sue and Jim who are both 55, a knack for booze, and have 3 kids?). Just think about the standards we use to measure proficiency and merit. Meh.
 @saturationstation1446  I made not a single mention of rich people 🤷‍♀️
Yeah, Harper had a terrible TFW program, and Trudeau only made it worse. Amazing!
@ Finally someone who gets it. And I don't think if conservatives will be as greedy as the former two PMs or more like Trump 😮‍💨
@saturationstation1446   These "rich people" you are hating on, are the sole reason your life is good enough to have internet access and a device to complain about how pathetic your life is.  Fix your own life, stop blaming people who are better than you for your problems
Dunno where you live but I know some company where some employees (without a degree) makes $35+/h and the company still struggle to find people
 @Ok-um5ho  I'm sorry to hear man, meat processing is a brutal job. IMO pay should be like $40/h now after inflation.
 @Weaver_Games  I'm lucky , i work maintance and mostly do preventive work, the actual guy on the line packing the meat and wraping the skid make like 16,27/h for one of the most brutal job i've seen, maybe worse than roofing.
 @UpYourArsenal  People that worship money and embrace the commodification of life - they think the most important thing is how much money a nation is worth to banks. This is the mentality of plunderers and slavers, it is out of place in leading a nation.
I have a bachelor of science in biology.  My last job at a lettuce packing plant quality control tech paid me $25 an hour and made me start at 4am.  Long story short is I quit and have been unemployed since 2018.  Not worth working, could never afford a home or steak anyway.
@sylvariatzaka  what kind of job does a bachelor in biology entitle you to?  Genuine question, because though it sounds fancy, I've no idea what application it has in a job, other than teaching biology.
I work in software development and half my team of 15 are immigrants. Same for the rest of the company. Not just cheap jobs, those are very well paid jobs.
 @UpYourArsenal  as opposed to now, where if you work a full time job, with overtime, you still cant afford to eat lmao
 @AletheAce  High school kids in the 70s and 80s would work in fast food, earn money, get work experience, and get a management reference. No benefits, but that's OK given they were covered by their parents health plan. After 6 months they would move up and get better job. I started at MCD at $3.25 and today earn very very well as a CPA.  The references were worth more than the $3.25 an hour.
 @purpleblueunicorn  Many sw companies have global engineering departments. Easier to open in India, China, Eastern Europe and now Latin America. Back in the 80s only Silicon Valley and Boston had population with the skill set.
 @strypz.   Maybe Canadians will vote better as a result.  (Doubt it)
 @BaconizedCanadian   "This person can't win, so I'm going to vote against them" is next level Canadian thinking.
 @Heeta.  Sure. You work short days with many breaks and actually only work half  a year for good pay.
Thank you!!! It was never an issue of shortage of workers. The employers should be pinned here as they are the ones choosing to cut costs and hire minimum or lower wage with no benefits. The government is equally at fault for utilizing immigration as a solution for this what they see as a "job shortage." A lot of immigrants and especially international students take advantage of these types of jobs in order to make ends meet here. All of these factors perpetuate the problem and make it worse.
Well then, how do you explain the shortage of workers after the lock downs were eased? There was a period of months where employers could not find workers to fill the ranks. I guess all those shitty jobs with no benefits I took was a waste of my skills. I should have just laid about and did NOTHING.
When a housing crisis is afoot, how much more property taxes should be paid when someone owns 3 or more houses?  Would there be a shortage if "investor groups" weren't driving up costs?  Food for thought.
This is whar ive been saying for decades. Trust me, i know // sweden
​ @UpYourArsenal  "People aren't worth more money than the work they perform.   People refusing to work minimum wage jobs when they are only worth minimum wage -- deserve what came to them.  Welcome to modern times, just like old times, you have to earn your keep -- only difference is now you spend that time in an office and not in the fields."  Why are you inclined to assume Canadians just rolled out of bed without doing a single thing in their life and demanded a job?  You've no idea how much personal sacrifice people have given to their workplaces or the education, training and relevant work experience they possess for the jobs they are doing and the jobs they are aspiring for.    Quit generalizing people.
​ @UpYourArsenal You mean people arent worth more money than they need to make for boss to buy a new Porsche LOL. Outside of social work, there are close to zero jobs who dont actually make vastly more than they get paid for, directly or indirectly.
 @deinemam7115   You seem to not understand the concept of a boss actually doing more important work than a pencil-pushing employee.  Their job is harder, more involved, requires more experience, and a majority of people can't pull it off -- bosses/CEOs make the money they do for a reason, and they earn every penny of it.  (If the boss fails, the entire company fails, and they no longer employ the lowly pencil-pushers like oneself - now they make nothing)  As a lowly worker, try gaining more skill and improving people skills -- to make oneself worth more money.  The boss has more money than their workers because the boss does more work -- 99% of people can not be good leaders.  Good leaders deserve more money.
 @UpYourArsenal  this.  Minimum skills + minimum responsibility = minimum wage.  Want to earn more? Take personal responsibility for getting more training, and accept more responsibility.  We need less DEI and more meritocracy in Canada, because feelings don't pay the bills.
 @AletheAce  Did you really just try to convince us that Invisible Magic Sky Daddy (aka God, Allah, Yaweh, Odin, Brahma, etc) actually exists, for real?  LOL!
No there's a shortage of workers, the demographics on the aging population makes that very clear.
​ @UpYourArsenal are you for fuqn real bud!? SMH talk about being out of touch!
Australia is in a similar situation. The cheap labor and profit driven management, has destroyed there construction abilities.
 @Tigercats1976   I'm more in touch with reality than the people complaining.  Welcome to reality - if you don't deserve more money, you should never have more money.   People are so spoiled, they deserve suffering to learn what life really is.   Get over it, you aren't entitled to an easy life.
@UpYourArsenal  you're really not! People that are doing all the right things are really struggling and it shouldn't be happening, just because you're not struggling doesn't mean there's not a serious problem, cause there is!   Millions of people are using food banks, people can't afford rent, they're losing their homes, they have to choose between paying the hydro bill, getting groceries or putting gas in the tank, and THAT BS shouldn't be happening to people that work hard at full-time jobs, people are even picking up part time work on the weekends to help keep food on the god damned table,  how can you be so obtuse!! The middle class has been wiped out, this country wasn't this way 20-30 years ago!! Do you realize what a Canadian has to be earning to even think about buying a new home in this country??!! Where's the jobs that pay that kind of money!? People making $30/hr are struggling bud, you are 100% out of touch!
 @Tigercats1976   All Canadians not only allowed, but they encouraged, this outcome.  Make better choices in the future.  = )
@UpYourArsenal millions and millions of hard working Canadians would say that you're 100% INCORRECT, which again  just go to show how out of touch with the  overwhelming majority of Canadians you truly are.
HI Ace, I knew that fact back in 1992. A skilled worker who decided not to give away my skills free. Always get a kick out of hearing that you can't find a skilled tradesman anymore..along the way I should have been able to help train the next generation, but industry said they could not afford to do that! .. I saw this coming a long time ago.
 @Tigercats1976   Millions and millions of people would say that the Earth is flat - that doesn't make their opinion relevant.
Every Product is so expensive! People are going poor very poor, NO FUTURE for the average person! Only the rich can live nicely! 😢  BTW ; this is happening in Europe too.
@AletheAce Exactly like the UK. No wonder they both have the same problem right now. :)
​@UpYourArsenal Agreed on minimum wage increases being the problem. Been telling people for over 20 years to stop fighting for higher wages and instead demand lowered costs of living but keep wages the same. If housing, utilities and other such basic necessities were more affordable, we'd be okay. There is no real reason for our bills to be as much as they are. It is a fact Canadians are being gouged by these companies. Other countries do not pay as much as we do for their phone bills, internet, etc.  I also have long declared "affordable housing" to be a joke. Housing should be affordable. Period. It's the overpriced stuff that should be the minority  I was doing okay making $8/hr when my rent for a 2 bedroom apartment was only $700+ It was still a struggle at times, but I could also stretch $20 at Dollarama.  What good is $15/hr when you can't even stretch ,$20 at a dollar store?
Yeah, this is one thing in the video I disagreed with. It's not skilled workers they want for the most part. It's cheap workers they can use up and dispose of.
 @UpYourArsenal the difference is that in ‘olden times’ minimum wage was enough to raise a family on. Now it’s not enough for food. My grandpa put his kids through college, owned a house, and bought a new car every few years on minimum wage. I make more now than he did when he retired and will never own a house.
 @alarictheredboi276yearsago4   Incorrect.  In "olden times" there was no such thing as a minimum wage.  You worked to produce what you could - sold that product for what it was worth, and exchange what you earned for what you wanted.   Any person who failed to buy what they needed had to produce and sell more - nobody arbitrarily overpaid for their unnecessary product.  Minimum wage must be abolished - it is the problem, and not the solution.
 @Sakosaga  it is also not ideal in under developed countries, for example, young uni students face the fact they are out of any work after graduation in my home country, and any person lost their job after age 35 cannot find a new job due to the age. I think the world is facing a situation where we out supply the labor force, thus the firms can always low ball us workers due to there are just plenty of replacements compare to few decades ago.
Why do you insist everyone has to have a life as difficult as yours? It's like saying I was mugged, therefore my neighbor should be mugged, too.
Can you eat internet access? Then it doesn't do much good for poor people, does it? Does the Internet guarantee you a job? Then it doesn't do much good for poor people, does it?
 @AletheAce  I believe he was not talking exactly about personal worth nor a person per se as a commodity. However, I believe he was talking about the situation where there exist lots of people whose work capacity is, indeed, a commodity - irrespective of the country. And for these lines of work there are market prices and market caps.  I've heard many years ago that the minimum wage was concocted to actually decimate the population, meaning, people that could not perform to a minimum market standard would just not receive anything, and perish. I am not educated enough in this matter to concur with that mindset, but at the same time, I don't feel it is completely devoid of logic.  It appeared to me that the political leaders of Canada have boosted a nation wide immigration program without prior analysis and project for housing and infrastructure for such endeavor. Sadly, it appears to be a win-win situation, maybe by design, where the capital receives desperate, cheap workforce and, on the other hand, capital funds and asset managements got offered the demand to boost the housing price, including rentals.  Organic growth might be the concept the people would be looking for - and the leaders should too, urgently.
 @UpYourArsenal   Huh? Thats just your personal opinion, it’s not objective fact. Stating it as though it’s some self evident truth is extremely arrogant.
 @UpYourArsenal   You have no clue what a ceo does, would be my guess
 @UpYourArsenal   You need to educate yourself on the economic reality of the 1950s and 60s.   You had an entire family being supported by a single income. Now a married couple can barely support each other while both employed.
Don't forget that big companies get massive tax breaks for TFWs.
yes,  and this is why I for one can't what until the system collapses.  Then the well of will truly be thankful.  French Revolution come to mind.
Maybe you aren't aware that political leaders spend their days meeting 'business leaders'. They tell the government what they need to grow business, and government does it.
Indeed. High immigration is great for the big end of town. More tax slaves for the Government, more debt slaves for the banks and more low wage slaves for big business. It totally wrecks society, housing and cost of living for ordinary people. However that isn’t a problem for all the parties I just mentioned above as they are all rich. See the picture.
I was looking for work starting at the age of 16, I am now double that age and over that period and hundreds if not thousands of resumes, 3 jobs picked me up in that 16 year search just about. As much as I wanted to go to university or college after graduation I thought I could work my way up to that point because Student loans are more BS than back in my dad's day. Less jobs all around for the entry level and the competition for jobs gets stricter the more skills and qualifications you get. AKA BUSINESS BIAS TOWARDS CUSTOMER they screw employees with pinchpenny wages, and screw customers anyway with exorbitant prices. Uncle Scrooge said it best, Money should flow like ocean currents. But the rich are sitting on island hoards like dragons and not letting money flow.
Standard of living is a direct result of the average citizen's economic output divided by the amount of citizens.
​ @Heeta.  That would be an absolute sh*t show. Could you imagine who says who is worth one minimum wage that is lower or higher than the other? If you think there's division and anger now just implement this smooth brained idea. I feel bad for the kids coming out of high school or in school trying to find jobs and have to fight a crowd of 3 000 adult immigrants.
 @Sakosaga  ".... instead of finding ways to pay people ..." companies are supposed to find ways to innovate, to improve efficiency and thus improve output so they can sell more products or services at a lower cost and pass that savings to the employees. Once they stop doing that then the good pay and benefits go away. And then some geniuses in Wall Street thought of globalization, the start of job exports to low-wage countries like China (lots of people, lots of consumers) all in the name of profits which means high stock prices. So if you have money in your 401K and your ROIs are higher, think globalization.
Yes and then you have the landlords from their home country giving them the opportunity instead of others to have the rentals trust me I see this all over from where I'm from in Ontario.
 @jogana6909  but now, every gas station, convenent store, fast food restuarant, coffee shop is owned by them and they only hire thier own. so there are no opportunities left for new workers.  at least not near where I am.
Over simplified. The immigrants that Canada selects are largely better educated than the native born. (Wastefully, their credentials and experience are not recognized.) Canada is desperate for immigrants because our birth rates (“natural increase”) are well below rates needed to maintain and grow the population. “Natural increase” provides just one-third the number we need to remain steady at 39 M.  If you think your tax burden is unbearable today, imagine supporting the Baby Boomers into their very long old age with a declining population! The population over 65 is 25%, and they will live a decade or two longer than their parents did.   The housing crisis is caused because the federal and provincial governments got out of regulating and investing in housing 35 years ago. The developers have built fast profit 700 sq ft condos for 25 years: not family housing. If you are in TO, look at the Vaughan Hwy 7/400 hub: dense mini condo towers surrounded by detached suburban homes no one can afford. This isn’t the housing model young families need. We are repeating the errors of Robert Moses and the “projects” of 1950s.
Where did you learn these? What studies? You know your stuff
 @UpYourArsenal  Amen. Rich people single-handedly create jobs and create wealth. Communism-- envy and taking wealth from some and giving it to others forcefully, leads to everyone worse off.
Why don’t we understand capitalism if the people don’t want to work at the corporate shit jobs then the company should fail, we try to be like the states, when we should be more concentrated in our communities and make things for trade, Canada has become a corporate gold mine
@MrForeverMusicFan   Aww, is someone a little upset about reality?  It will be ok, it will be ok faster if you take your own words and not draw attention to oneself
This, it was a well-made video but completely missed this point which is the real cause.
When you can’t afford to eat or house yourself, you tend not to have children
No such thing as shitty jobs. Job is a job. The more you rising the wages the more expensive cost of living will be...
Exactly! So many immigrants have fallen victims of false advertisements. I know because I was one of them back in 2009. Glad I didn't insist on staying.
Workers are willing to work sh*Ity jobs for exactly one generation...those hard-working parents insist their kids go to school and do better than them, which I think is fantastic.  The downside is for the minimum wage-paying businesses having to look abroad for replacement workers to minimally pay. Of course, mass deployment of robotics and AI could upend this cycle in ways we aren't anticipating as well...
Yes, tand they still need hosuing, driving up rents upon natives.!
We allowed corporations and foreigners to buy our housing and rent it back to us. We own nothing and it’ll be impossible to do so when immigrants are normalizing the rapid degradation of our country. It’s not normal to expect people to live 3-4 families, 12-15 people, to a 1400 sq. Ft. home, while working $16/hr jobs (I’m not talking McDonalds, it’s near impossible to find a job that exceeds $18/hr) to barely put food on the table. We also have terrible public transportation. So many people work to barely afford their gas, insurance, cell phone, internet and groceries. And if you think a cell phone and internet is a luxury, you are part of the problem.
 @UpYourArsenal LOL simp harder for the rich, you’ll be a billionaire one day🤡🤣
 @saturationstation1446 Agreed. Many people who are ‘rich’ today, especially billionaires just shouldn’t exist. They didn’t work or earn any of it.
 @JohnSpartan-117   100% I will be -- and far sooner than you.
They sent all the workers home and then replaced them with immigrants.
The map shows US as "rich" and Canada as "poor". That simpistic view doesn't reflect reality, as both countries exhibit worse than 3rd world traits, such as tent encampments and massive homelessness in most cities. So, the truth is not so clear cut.
The politicans are not very inteligent. It's better to give 3X salary for the work that nobody wants to do it. It will be cheaper at the end.
 @MshTch  Totally agree! It's better to pay the junkyard worker, the agricultural worker, the factory workers etc more. Or maybe just invest in tech and automation to be less reliant on physical labor. Importing an army of immigrants is costlier in the long run, both financially and socially.
California used the same model with the added bonus of restricting housing construction. The fires are going to make the land owners even richer.
350000 new immigran ts per year is too much. It s an invasion
 @UpYourArsenal  you are actually right here, people are too delusional to accept that
Canadian Australian (Aussie) And American Dream Escape Canada 🇨🇦 USA 🇺🇸 Australia 🇦🇺
Umm, where will you go?! Seriously here in Australia is bloody hard whilst the rest of the  western world is even worse?!
Look at wages in Canada vs Australia... Minimum wage in Canada is generally $15-17 an hour, vs $24 in Australia.... And taxes here are very high.   At $15 an hour you'll see about $500 per week after deductions, and the average apartment in many places is at or above $2000 a month...
 @user-mi6pq2uu9s  it's not a Canadian thing. You'll find this no matter where you go. Although I do hear rent is kinda cheap in Russia.
@amandabeaty1492  Well, the rent and housing is one-third of Canada across Niagara in the US. So, it's definitely a Canadian thing, unfortunately...
​@troubadouyeah, kid everything you think it's politics 😢, you will be surprised r6987
​ @svenerikmoeller8809  not the western world, then 🤷🏼. Seriously, it sucks, but we're riding the decline of western civilization...I won't even say "lol learn Chinese", because that's not practical either, but reconsidering your place in the world is probably a start.
Vote for the next politician that’s going to promise real change. Yea real change for their own pockets.
 @amandabeaty1492  Having lived in Europe recently, I can assure you it is a Canadian thing. If you say otherwise, you have an agenda.
I know exactly where it is, check that big white circular thing on the floor in the bathroom.
 @amandabeaty1492 haha yeah, mortgages in Putinistan is 45% now, good for them
 @byronchavarria4954  Actually Canadian dream now is escaping TO USA. USA is doing great compared to here.
because you think elsewhere is better. Sorry but no, it's not, it got worse too.
It start with b Mulroney. Thé changes and immigration that hurt Canada 🇨🇦
 @amandabeaty1492  There are a lot of vacancies in Russia because a lot of young men have been dying lately.
The salaries of teachers in Ontario, Canada haven't risen much in the last 15yrs. In fact we just received the lowest salaries increases among all the public sector workers. Our teachers' unions are utterly pathetic. They encourage wage theft, violence, toxic work environments and working for free, etc. The moment u point this out to them, they intimidate u.
The cost of living in Canada is NOT comparable to our salaries!
 @meh4770  Ask anyone under the age of 40  in Dublin or London if they'll be able to buy a home in the city. The answer will be no. I too lived in Europe.
 @lisafiore7081  It's to be expected when conservative are in power and you are in a ''women's'' profession. Conservative will say that you have a ''vocation'' and thus don't need salary like men from the police or firefighter do. They always belittle women's. Every battle a women fight is harder especialy when it comes to salary in nursing/teaching/caring. They've been a little bit used to not paying us a living wage as they had us home ridden for centuries for free. Time to vote those idiot that can't do dishes or laundry out of office.
​@user-mi6pq2uu9s it's tough with a million new people coming in and your tax structure.
Just this year I have 2 Chinese colleagues who have returned to China. They got a good job (one in Shenzhen, the other in Shanghai) , much much lower income taxes than in Canada, and low cost of living.
 @byronchavarria4954  u done even live in america so quiet. our country america is fine and we babysitting canada till this day. get out the nest and fly on your own
Canadians complain about politicians, but then they elect people who allow higher house prices. Poilievre will be no different - he's in the pocket of developers. Developers will not build affordable housing and they will not flood the market with supply. They will not discount their prices if you lower their taxes. They will get the prices people are willing to pay and there are still plenty of people willing to pay these elevated prices. Free markets allowed these prices to get this high, so electing a free market politician is just asking for trouble.
​ @pezzmania  WEF owns Canada politics Schub said Truderau is like his son.
Canadians never integrated with the land. They relied on more settlers. But they were brown so they were renamed as something invented called "immigrants". A term that breaks treaties in concept. But they never them into most the economy. Rural and extraction in particular. Because its a white supremacist settler colony. Now it's white rural population is clumping up and not growing. The native population is flourishing, as are the brown immigrants the warehoused in cities. Canadians never learned which leaf to wipe their butt with. They don't look outside and see food for their community or medicine. They are still living like guests. Seaspan just bought ten more containerships from china. Because you can't make anything for yourselves. Buck up Gordie's
Its been gone for a long long while buddy. 95 to 2008 was the peak. Anything after that was a slow downfall. Turd-eau happened to accelerated it even more.
I moved from the US to Canada. I live in the Prairies, so cost of living is very different from Vancouver and Toronto. Went back to the US this summer. They are not having an easy time. The results of the resent election show people were not satisfied with the Status Quo in the US.
 @user-mi6pq2uu9s  but, the Niagara region is some of  cheapest in the USA. It is not like this in other parts of the united states
I was there too and can confirm, a room without a window was 100 dollars a week, all is so expensive tooooo
 @CorporateShill66  No the fuck we are not. Cost of healthcare here in the US is through the roof, cost of living is really high. Here in Michigan, the average rent is $1,400 a month, and minimum wage is $10 an hour. The US is crumbling, man, and it doesn't look like it's gonna get any better any time soon.
 @LIK3SQUAD_CEO  No the fuck we are not fine. The US has a housing crisis just as bad as Canada's, our healthcare is ridiculously expensive, and the cost of living in general is ridiculously expensive.
I feel like it's more to be rich and stay in Canada because it's a great place if you have 7 bodyguards and a helicopter to climb the mountains for you.
 @user-mi6pq2uu9s  You’re wrong. According to a few immigrant, or so called “newcomers” friends I know. The Canadian dream is actually to get a Canadian passport so they can finally go to the United States on a TN visa, and to be able to get the fuck out of Canada the minute right after they receive their CAN passports
 @anakinlowground5515  you must be on drugs. america is the best country in the world. we have ppl on rafts boats every month coming here. nowhere else that happens. also canada kisses our azz literally all our economy is what keeps them sustainable so they depend on us. our technology , medicine , education, cars etc they pay high taxes to keep that. which makes us richer which mean we pay lil taxes. i rather live here in atlanta and nowhere else. literally they even copy our behaviour and mannerism . we Americans and we are lucky.
@smcdonald9991  Really?! Why do they buy half the real estate in Vancouver and Toronto?
 @user-mi6pq2uu9s  can you elaborate how you are comparing canada and nigeria?
Yup. I always wish my mom had given birth to me in the states so I could be dual and have options. Being trapped here with no way out while watching everything go downhill is depressing as fuck.
 @svenerikmoeller8809  I think the housing condition in Canada is still a bit better than Australia, many Chinese billionaires bought properties in BULK in Australia and make everything become expensive, and the worst thing is, they don't even live in Australia, they just rent their property to the real Australian while they're living in Beijing, Shanghai, or Singapore, etc.
Going to retire in the Philippines...6 months out of country and 6 months in county so that my pension isn't affected.
The problem is that most of us love our country. AND support immigration, when done correctly! Our country is built on immigration. My own grandparents on my dad’s side came here to escape the war.  I don’t want to leave, I just want Trudeau to!!!
Come to San Diego. About every third person you bump into down here is from Canada originally. Come and enjoy the sunshine!
@supernova11711  I don't know how tens of thousands of asylum seekers will help Canada be competitive in the age of AI. Yes immigration is crucial and helps countries grow when the incomers are not mediocre ones with fake degrees. If you need plumbers, fair then only accept people who know the language and internationally prove their skills such that they are the best of the best. Over the course of past 8 years, there has been a huge, uncontrolled influx of immigrants. Almost anyone who crossed the border was given asylum. Kids of temporary workers in Canada are able to take government benefits 700+$ how does that make sense? If you ask an average citizen in Canada, they might say, " it's the same all around the world." Well, it is not! Plus, why isn't there a quota in immigration for countries with population crises like in the US? This would make it more homogeneous and balanced. Overall, Canada is making the same mistake over and over and expecting a different result, which is not going to happen...
 @byronchavarria4954  i wish i lived in the US :( i want to leave Europe already
@johnnybaxter1953  No, this problem is the same since 2005, higth prices low Salaries result a big damage years later.
 @mylecr4919  What do you mean, 2005 wages in Canada were great. Better than 95% of the world
Never knew Canada 🇨🇦 had a Dream I thought that was always an American 🇺🇸 one.
 @byronchavarria4954 blue states maybe like hell but now the dream is in red states especially Texas and Florida. Alberta is the only heaven in Canada with its booming oil industry and conservative value.
​ @svenerikmoeller8809 just got back from a small Chinese city of Hunchun. 😅 average 100m2 apt is 1200 RMB. A very basic salary is 5-7K RMB. With a double income a family can live very comfortably. So yeah, it's not that bad everywhere in the world. And what about Canadian countryside? Is it just as expensive?
It’s already gone.  I’m in the top 10% of earners and I can’t afford a house. What about the 90% that make less than I do.
umm..jeee ya think? A good 10 years late on the ball there bud.
French-born, in 2004 I tried to migrate to Canada after 12 years residency in the  USA.  I was told no, "you are coming here to enjoy our Social Security" 2004, I was 41, good-looking, non-smoker, non-drinker.  2024, Canada is today a sh|th0l3, I am glad to learn that :))
 @CorporateShill66 no. no it is not. salaries might be higher sometimes, but the amount of things they have to pay for is insane. multiple thousands of dollars a year in health insurance premiums, sky high utility bills because it's all private, if you take any medication be prepared for your out of pocket monthly cost to go up ten times. Thousands and thousands for daycare. Rent down there is very similar to Canada once you do the conversion. Plus if you aren't 100% on board the Maga train, it's really not a great time.
This comment is wild. Twice I tried to immigrate to Canada and failed. In hindsight, i feel thankful. I'm Lebanese too. And im still thankful. 😂
@ but they do raise land tax by 650 percent in Victoria Australia which has resulted in both a exodus of investors which in turn were bought by first homeowners and now the rent is skyrocketing. This is what happens when you have a feminist at the reigns.
I went to Canada as an International student more than 25 years ago. Now I am a migration agent. I have sent at least 1000 people a year to Canada for the last 2 decades. That's a more profitable endeavor than practicing any other type of law. Everyone and their grandmother wants to go to Canada and get a Canadian passport
@FrankLemarin-df4sp totally wrong but sure it is an Olympic sport now to see whose country is worst
have you left already?  We will be OK if you do.
Im scouting out Southeast asia in a few months. Might never come back to Canada.
​@amandabeaty1492  It IS a Canadian thing. Just stop pretending you're a developed country ffs.
I want out. I'll swap with any American who thinks we have it better up here. Maybe that would be a program we could start lol.
People there is no more middle class in Canada. Your either poor or rich. Your lucky to have  a home if you were able to purchase before 2017. Usa is crap. It's a terrible country to live at. I don't understand why people think the usa is great. Canada is too expensive just for housing.
Forgot to mention. None of these politicians really care as they are rich.
Yeah cause a revolution against your literal landLORDS is a dream too ambitious for the Anglosphere serfs.
 @svenerikmoeller8809  The combination of socialist government and a corporatist private sector lobbying for special privileges will destroy any economy.
 @anakinlowground5515  same in the UK, affording a house is impossible, wages have stagnated and food prices have gone through the roof
 @amandabeaty1492  I live in Russia, and here literally half of your wage spents on rent, the rest half on food
@Morgan77477  Well the Russian people on the YouTube lied to me. I got a really nice tour of a flat in Moscow for like $750 CAD or something. I'd live in that flat if I had to.
@  750$ its like big salary in Russia the hell are u talking?😆
 @svenerikmoeller8809  USA, Salvadore is doing very well and Argentina is greatly getting better
It's already gone. Literally impossible for anyone making average/below average wages to afford a home no matter how thrifty they are or how much they save/invest/spend.
Thank the Liberals / NDP coalition and the sheep who vote for them since 2015. Votes have consequences, vote accordingly.
White Canadians PLEASE migrate to America. We need friends and family here.
 @davidmende4438  Hard to migrate there legally bruv. Especially if you have no money.  You want to line me up a biology job in the U.S to be able to move there? I'm down.  This country up here sucks now. It will never be the same after Turdeau.
Don't come to the US; the cost of living situation isn't any better down here. (Maybe try Mexico.)
If this is how they talk in public, imagine what happens behind the doors.
He already broke the last ceasefire, why would I think he wouldn't break this one? That's an incredibly fair question
thank you for providing the entire conversation...in full, without interruptions, and without commentary
Zelensky is speaking even-toned, and did not raise his voice. Trump and JD began shouting and constantly talking "over" someone whose is not speaking his primary language. This is common behavior when someone is not getting their way; they just speak louder. Very childish and disrespectful from the American side.
"You've done a lot of talking." Meanwhile, he wasn't able to answer a question without them talking over him.
I am usually not a fan of WSJ but I love that you guys are willing to show everything without interruptions.  More transparency is what the American people need and deserve from all administrations.
Zelenskyy asked a fair question and then they dogpiled him for 10 mins.   That response from trump was shameful. I never want to hear this guy talk up his own diplomacy again.
To me, it looks like JD triggered the heated argument because he was trying to impress the media. He kept looking at the media while talking but Zelensky was looking at him, eye to eye while responding to him.
JD: Try diplomacy.  Zelensky: We signed agreements, they went back on them. Our people have been dying. What would you suggest?  JD: How dare you? You should be thankful.
the turning point is at 3:11 when JD doesn't know how to respond to Zelensky's question of what do you mean by diplomacy, when they have tried numerous times and Putin didn't hold his end. JD's ego got hurt and turned the conversation around to paint Zelensky as disrespectful. If I was Trump I'd be yelling at JD after this meeting and make sure he keeps his mouth shut next time.
Everything was going fine until Zelensky asked JD a direct question and JD's ego couldn't handle it.
You know when someone is out of their element, they start yelling nonsense to drown out the truth.
Interrupts Zelenskyy to correct him on the year, gets corrected himself, loudly says he wasn't here
This was embarrassing to watch.  They set this guy up to berate him and not allow him to answer questions.  Childish
To President Zelensky::All Americans aren't like this moron! Some of us have learned not to be a bully, and respectful of other people!!!
This is scary... It's like watching my parents argue and we're about to have a divorce.
He’s getting yelled at and he’s the one being called disrespectful.
Zelensky was not shouting. President and Vice President are shouting. They are kicking a man while he's down.
8:20 "what if Russia breaks cease fire"  Trump: "what if a bomb dropped on your head right now?"  What an insensitive and asinine statement from the "President."
Yeah, this seemed like a behind closed door conversation. Not normally seen in public, but it's kind of nice to see too of the passion and everything isn't done with smiles on their faces and agreeing.
It's all theatre for the simple minded. Those of us aware knows exactly what happens behind closed doors.
 @PoTat-xp4cb if they wanted to show the American public what really happens behind closed doors they would just film it at show it to us. All of this is just theatrics
 @lukezacharias3245  it's just what I said, this intense conversation is not normally seen amongst presidents.  It's not embarrassing that both sides need more time to come to an agreement. Sure, trump/Vance were a little controlling and weren't quite right saying how he was disrespectful. But that's how negotiations go.
 @MnemonicHeadTrip  so you think they're just acting and are doing it for likes and views??
I figured they share a beer 🍻 and play pool lol 😂
 @brianob1 That’s on Zelenskyy. The conversation didn’t see to derail until he wanted to lecture the US.
This brings back Helsinki Vibes. It’s obvious Putin has something on Trump
 @Ronald-z9s6c  You must think the Apollo space craft, the whole Neil Armstrong prancing about on the moon thing is real.
They are just people who put their pants on one leg at a time.
I think that was the point Trump made, he wanted people to get a peek at the way things go behind the doors.
 @brianob1  Everything Zeleboba does is for likes and clout. Including sending his soldiers to die for a photoop.
​ @brianob1  Trump said it out loud as they got up to walk out " It will make good television..." lol. I imagine they knew. But it did show that JD. needs to learn a bit of patience and International diplomacy. Things can be said in more than one 'low brow' way.!
​ @Ronald-z9s6c I do...I do thi k they are real... wait N See...😅
​ @thehardyboys4227 ...it might be theater for Putin.  He needs to be treated the same way but I do not think Trump would invite Putin to the Whitehouse in this situation. That is why his was done in Saudi Arabia. Putin will be arrested if he goes to any Democratic countries.
This is actually what we need to see. I’m sorry if you can’t handle the truth your the actual problem
 @amberzmuda9450    I hope you understand English. Your reply to my comment doesn't even make any sense. Where did I specifically mention whether I like it or not??
Thanks Mr. President for embarrassing himself our entire nation for the whole world to see.
@  Only the punches and the bruises were missing here on live camera.
 @carmp3fan How dare he stand up for his country rather than allow lies to be unchallenged, right?
They're probably better behind closed doors. Everyone feels like they need to posture for the camera.
You don't understand them. They're cowards. This is a reality tv show, all of this was 100% for the cameras, and audience (that's what we are now).
Trump is always trump....that's what makes him different..he says what he means he means what he says.
 @brianob1 You don’t treat fellow heads of state like your spoiled teen that’s literally not how negotiations work.
Behind closed doors, they're laughing at you!  These men love each other.
They used to box in the halls of Congress back in the day.
 @carmp3fan trump was lecturing zelenskyy on his own country’s history. (and was wrong!)
Indian gram panchayat president speaks more effective than presidents of nations😂😂😂😂😂
 @brianob1 I think President Zelensky was disrespectful in attitude, talking over Trump the entire time--even if Trump didn't let him respond to one of Vance's questions; but overall, I think he wasn't very humble in regard to the amount of US support he has received. That was Trump/Vance's point. And I think it's true.
I think this is exactly how they’d talk private or public; don’t think it would change
⁠​⁠ @YeahNo.-pm4ih EXACTLY. Zero respect. JD thinks he can talk to  other countries presidents this way?  Seemed like he wanted a scratch behind the ears for being a good boy for his owner, Trump.
Trump  tuned him real good behind  closed doors. I'm sure!!
Trump got mad when Zelensky schooled him on their boy. Our Pres and VP are toadies.
 @PoTat-xp4cb  I always take mind readers and know everything's with skepticism, especially when they speak like all who don't agree are feable-minded.
Theatrics , are you kidding me , how empty headed are people
@l.piloto7964  don't you remember three years ago when Russia had loads of tanks on the outskirts of Kiev? What happened? For those of us who aren't feeble minded there are only two or three possibilities. Either Kiev fell or the Russian forces were annihilated or there was a truce bringing about the end of the war. Considering none of these things happened, the war has been exposed as a laughable farce. What happened to those tanks? Why did they stop short of entering the city? Since when in a real war does that ever. Happen? It was the same during WW2 and the miracle of Dunkirk when 330, 000 allied troops, trapped on a beach with the Wehrmacht closing in on them, were rescued by a fleet of pleasure craft. War: laughably ridiculous since time immemorial.
 @brianob1  Yes, I agree he wasn't disrespectful. The behavior was unprofessional and arrogant.
yeah thats how in great need people are to find Jesus, calling upon Him with a contrite heart behind their doors.
​ @jamiep7860  I thought Vance was disrespectful and Trump would have done better alone
 @SNickole  we know they strong armed him, it's about whether you agree with it, while I don't agree with the method, atleast they are keeping the USA strong and as  members of the USA they are showing strength
​ @lukezacharias3245 embarrassing for zielinski he wouldn't let Trump talk once.😮 Problem with that is- zelenski does not have the power here, and he needs needs to know this place
Yes, shame on them !!!! They have no respect for nobody!!!
 @carmp3fan  Are you on acid? Did you actually listen? It doesn't sound like it. but please, tell us what Zelensky said that was wrong?
​ @brianob1 it is quite possible.  It also tracks with Trumps tactics.  He is rather aware of how appearances have a lot of sway.  It's all speculation of course.
​​ @Ronald-z9s6c that's quite a stretch just to slanderhominid. With an ad hominem, which indicates a weak stance on your part.  It's anyone's guess.
​ @carmp3fan  Vance sounded like a clown reading a bad script and Trump obviously was ready to set an ambush.  Mind you I voted for him, but he started this.  I wonder how much of this was done to feel out zelinsky and to read the Russian response.  None of us really know.
This was unecessary in public. Zesky needs to stop acting as he usually does and get some situational awareness and in touch with the times. Vice President Vance needs to stop throwing kerosene in the fire, and President Trump should have had the discernment to not react to Zesky’s provocations.  It was an unfortunate event.
​ @the-sickest-show-on-earth   work on your comprehension skills, for your own sake.
 @lifeinjapan3468  they would never speak to their master Netanyahu this way.
I think the Yale Law School should teach their students a class in good manners. J.D. behaved like a bully. So ridiculous!  There is a saying that comes to my mind: you can take a boy out of the village but not the village out of the boy.
@ they gaslit a world leader about a war they’ve been living through for nearly a decade (also, through his first administration, btw).
 @lukezacharias3245  Being told the truth is not “gaslighting”, man. You can’t use a psychological term to dismiss facts.
Good to not have these behind closed doors.  Or have Pelosi wave the Ukrainian flag at the US congress.
Our indian Bulsh 😸 Internet  providers Or maybe be you  tube india has dumped Out  some other Kinda of cut off  edited out version Of theirs discussion s .. video clips ... All across the social media Platform s with respect to the World media Agencies.. Except this YT Account ..  😬 Or hadn't it might edited down  by the Bulsh Ai .. 🥶
First time in my 57 years I have seen them talk like this.
SHOW THE WHOLE MEETING, about 50 min, not only the last 10 min.
they just talk like this in front of the AMerican media
Behind close door they wine and dine on (y)our dime, laughing and giggling away.
 @lukezacharias3245 It’s refreshing to see the reality I think it’s what he was saying, instead of us not knowing this conversation happened and we see smiling faces telling us a watered down version. Also, not every attempt of politics being honest is embarrassing
The art of leadership is saying no, not saying yes. It is very easy to say yes. Thank you President Trump for kicking his a$$ out of the WH.  He came in his farm clothes looking for a fight.  This little shrimp  should be replaced.
I literally said that to my dial a ride driver yesterday.
Behind closed doors, Zelensky drops his pants and makes everyone happy 🙂
 @lifeinjapan3468  totally agree. Zelensky had every right to call them out
Exactly all theater. They both are actors. Trump is a sorcerer and words are magic.
 @lukezacharias3245  for Zelinsky it was. but at the end what you want is transparency dont you? well this is it
 @charliedallachie3539  I dont think so, you have to pay more attention to this type of conversation. probably you are too young to understand
They're all laughing and shaking hands. "CUT! Looks good, next scene"
Even if it was filmed behind close doors, anti-trump people will still say it's theater
​ @thehardyboys4227 100% right, you nailed it. You can see how Trump fails to come up with a real answer to the questions regarding Ukraine help. I felt bad for Ukraine's president. It's actually disgusting that they asked him to thank them repeatedly.... But not once said, we were glad to help... That is why we want peace around the world..... Let's think about that.
He answered "why" he didn't answer "what if" to paraphrase he said Putin and I have a mutual respect while the other administration did not and that's why I believe Putin will not break the cease fire we agree on this time
But also is your argument then no cease fire and continue the war? Sounds like democrat war mongering to me. A ceasefire only helps the people of Ukraine
 @weafk  But somehow it’s fine when it’s Israel? I don’t get it. I’ve been a proud conservative all my life, but they’ve really let me down on this issue. Don’t think about the politics of it, just change the names to Israel and Hamas and suddenly everything Ukraine is doing and saying makes sense. Why is it so hard for everyone to see that?
 @crystalpoholka2707  - the dynamics in those two conflicts are completely different.  Israel has the ability to destroy Hamas entirely… Ukraine does not have the same for their adversaries.
​ @Sam_T2000 except hamas has the backing of iran china and russia lol
 @TraffyWifeSwap  A 'CEASEFIRE' was NEVER a 'Peace Treaty' ... Thank the EU and UK (Macron and Boris Johnson who represented the major European Arms Dealers) for the 'WRENCH' im THAT process.
 @crystalpoholka2707  what do you mean? We want a ceasefire in Gaza too. That’s been trumps stance for the last year
 @BigYoshie539  respectfully, this is also an American problem.  As Zelensky has said, we are Strategic Partners.  As America 🇺🇸 has said from every angle, we are Strategic Partners.
When the current president is cozying up to Putin yes it is. Because if we are allies to Russia and not Ukraine we have once again sided with the oppressors. You’re talking about a betrayal that would get the USA booted from the UN. You’re talking about the country that is supposed to be a symbol of democracy and peace choosing to favor a dictator who has murdered thousands because of his greed and ego over an independent sovereign nation. It is the United States problem because trump continues to aid Russia.
 @CB-sy4db  while you’re on the topic of democracy.  When are the Ukrainian elections being held?
 @crystalpoholka2707  The conflict between Israel and Palestine has been going on for over 80 years, so their situation is quite unique.  The war between Russia and Ukraine could fizzle out in a couple years, like almost all other wars, and they could go on coexisting as before.
How in the world are we supposed to stop that from happening? Finding peace is the goal. Make it last after that. Unreal
 @JonnyMaxxx  But it isn't. Go fight for Ukrain if you want to. Dont drag other Americans into this.
Elections have been postponed in many democratic nations in the past. The elections being withheld in Ukraine are completely legal. For the country’s stability it makes more sense to postpone elections now regardless of whether you agree with that or not. This does not mean it is not a nation that upholds democracy.
That ceasefire was not when Trump was in office Trump adds a different element to the conversation
You have no idea what goes on off script to provoke these things. It’s honestly amazing more wars don’t pop off.
​ @weafk  Putin has ignored ceasfires much more than once. Its a military tactic of his. As far as the malarky you are talking about, its not zelensky wants. Zelensky wants lasting peace, to him a ceasefire from russia is as useful as a hula doll in wartime. Because putin has a proven and recorded record of breaking ceasefires. This is why zelensky throws out the word NATO and then says "no one has ever attacked a NATO country". To him, lasting peace means more than words from an enemy. Hes seeking lasting peace through strength and unity with friends, through a duty bound doctrine of security assurances.  Maybe go look into stuff rather than just try to depose a commenter with your weak sauce.
Zelensky "forgot" to mention how many times Ukraine broke ceasefire. Those agreements were joke and Putin got fed up with Ukraine constantly breaking them, hence why the war started.
​ @BigYoshie539   protection defined:   "the practice of paying money to criminals so as to prevent them from attacking oneself or one's property."  "a protection racket" - The dictionary of oxford languages  So you are saying america paid putin to step the eff off? Or do you not know what your talking about?
 @RobertSoscia  Why is it the worlds problem? Is it some random tribe in the pacifics problem?
Didn't realize Trump and Vance were so easily offended. Not exactly skillful negotiators...
​ @weafk Zelenskey isn't wrong to ask the question though. At the very least Trump could have said what he did at the end, that Putin won't break a deal Trump brokers. It was pretty softball stuff, but Trump/Vance decided to use it to escalate tensions with Ukraine which means they are either very bad diplomats, or intend to broker a very pro-Russia agreement.
 @weafk  How does a ceasefire only help the people of Ukraine. They have lost a great deal of their land mass. Should we not be trying to help ukraine? Are they not an Ally with a common enemy or was the cold war against Ukraine? interesting.
@ because we live in an interconnected global economy.  Remember what happened to the price of gas and grain and other commodities when this war first broke out?  True we weren’t directly suffering, but we had to deal with some of the economic reverberations of the war.  I wish we could just remove ourselves from these messes, but isolationism just isn’t realistic.
 @Sam_T2000  Ukraine did not attack and invade Russia. Russia attacked and invaded UKRAINE
 @camd5348  - correct.  I didn’t say they did… my point is that the two conflicts are not at all comparable 😑
that’s what Zelenskyy was i think trying to say but Trump told him that was because obama was in office and putin doesn’t respect anyone of the presidents but trump. I do think zelenskyy had an opportunity and just missed it.
@BigYoshie539  No, I was responding to your commentary. Not someone elses. My subject was you. You have subverted your own premise...
@ Zelensky thanks America regularly, it's not like he's an "ingrate" as Trump and Vance would paint him. But he could've used a better English speaker by his side for sure
@ "trust me bro I got this" while his country's under constant rocket fire by a world superpower lol
@ i'm not arguing anything it's just a fair question. I'm sure Zelensky would be happy with a ceasefire too if he thought Russia would actually adhere to it. Hence the question
It is they need a permanent solution but zelinski needs to keep to himself about talking down on the person he wants peace with I don't think they're really is a way out of this war without compromise on zelinski and Putin's part if they want their land back and their prisoners back it's a terrible situation with horrible results in almost all directions and in my opinion compromise is the best option at this point
@ pretty sure it didn't have an expiration date. ceasefire just takes the battle to diplomacy and economics rather than guns and death, it's not an excuse to break it whenever you get super angy
​ @stephenmelton2532  there is martial law whilst at war, you would not remove the leadership in a war replacing them with all new people, it would be the same to say we lost..... and they would lose, since you have people Who know what is going on, replacing them with people Who would have to catch up would clearly be impossible.. zelensky also stated that he would step down as president if the war ended... 😊
​@Sam_T2000  With all respect, it sounds like what you are saying is we should always just align with whomever has the bigger stick. Am I right in that interpretation? If so, that doesn't align with what is right or just. I would argue in the past, what has made the US great is the willingness to stand for justice.
​ @phillipmoyte1063  Oh yeah,  he adds a different 'element', alright 🤣!
because when putin broke it an saw he can bend all of the biden admins over the table an watch them take it, he took the advantage but if your not going to gamble and try to make an attempt to come back to the table with new game players for another attempt in hopes this one will work out then why are we still helping them.. if i was zelensky i would attend to the meeting and try an make a deal an if its broken and trump an his team dont stand for it an just takes it like the democrats then you see... old saying is: if at first you dont succeed, try try again
It's a matter of respect.  When you know the hand that feeds will keep feeding you when you bite it, you have lost respect and the hand has lost sight of the hierarchy.
 @Sam_T2000  because of the Budapest Agreement where Ukraine gave up their nuclear arsenal as persuaded by the US, Russia and UK. Ukraine’s borders was supposed to be honored. Well see how that went.
 @brandonhoffman4712  one of the conditions on the “ceasefire” is Ukraine  can not join NATO.
 @PilarJacobo-s5h  - would it have been a good idea to trust a fledgling nation like Ukraine with nuclear weapons?  would the other former Soviet republics have been happy about that?
@ When the Soviet Union collapsed, Ukraine inherited the third largest nuclear arsenal.  I don’t know if that is good but to me, they don’t have the arsenal to fight now a world superpower or aggressor.
 @BigYoshie539  It is because Europe is one of largest strategic and trade partners. What happens there will send shockwaves we cant ignore.
I'm just wondering how you go about wife swapping.  Do you get to keep the new one if she is better?  What about cooking do they have to cook and bring you a beer while you scream at the big game on TV?
@ Ukraine has no leverage. The only way for it to not be so one sided is if the US is involved.   Cmon people this is basic stuff. Some of you are so idealistic.
@ okay so what if Russia says we use nukes on Kyiv if Ukraine joins nato? Or let’s say Ukraine joins nato and Russia attacks again? Your proposal is that world war 3 happens and millions of people die? That’s a weird war mongering democrat point of view. We want peace and for these countries to figure it out because we have our own problems at home.
 @MOHAMMEDNIZAMI-k7x  WHy specificals Ukrain? What about all the other countries were allies with that actually matter.
 @philipcarter-je8gw  How is it nuclear war if only one side has the nukes?
 @BigYoshie539 Trump said he was gonna get it resolved, and then Americans elected in supposedly. So it kind of is now.
 @crystalpoholka2707   Israel is a nuclear power, Ukraine isn’t.  We know who we have to keep on our side.
 @weafk  It will be a long,long time before Ukraine joins NATO,if ever. Hopefully,there won’t be need for NATO in the distant future.
 @cdemato1  The reason Ukraine doesn’t have nuclear weapons is because it disarmed itself of the nuclear weapons it did have after the end of the Soviet Union. Ukraine did so with the understanding that Russia would respect its sovereignty. How has that turned out?
@ it is our problem. WW3 is the world’s problem. Sometimes we are idiots
Listen, he seemed humbled to me. He seemed not to scream actually he didn’t raise his voice. He’s in a hard position and men have pride, so yeah, he does need to not mention certain things, but it’s not a shouting match.
 @weafk  if anything it atleast gives them time to nurse wounds and regroup
@ a ceasefire would definitely and also agreeing to this mineral deal that’ll put private American citizens on the ground
 @Gooberr  so a democratic government can suspend the will of the people, and cling to power when the government sees fit?  How does that differ from the generic dictatorship?  Mental gymnastics
@ Because if we dont defend Ukraine when we have the clearest reason to none of our other allies will trust a word we say. If not appealing to the Ego of one man is enough to sway us to abandon all of our principles, why should they trust us?
 @CB-sy4db There's a difference between being allies and having no reason to fight each other.
I agree.  It is a very fair question.  Zelensky and Ukraine may have a weak hand but, they are not completely out of cards.  Trump badly wants peace.  Ukraine needs more assurance than Russia will play nice now that I am president.
Well, in all honesty, if Putin does respect Trump and honors the ceasefire agreement, what happens in 4 years when Trump is out of office and another idiot takes his place that he doesn't respect?
Only a narcissist would want a thank you from a man who has an intruder in their home. Imagine if you had a home, and an intruder breaks in during the night. The intruder is going room by room, killing anyone inside each room.  Imagine your house is big though, and it has many rooms.  So while the intruder is going around each room, you managed to sneak off to the neighbor’s house where the neighbor has a lot of guns and fire power that would stop the intruder.  You desperately and urgently ask the neighbor if they can please help because there is an intruder currently in your home killing your family. Well, then the neighbor says, in order for him to help and negotiate with the intruder (doesn’t that sound ridiculous already?) he wants some of the jewelry that you own, and then he wants a “thank you”. The neighbor says, “well ever since you knocked on my door today you didn’t even say “thank you””.  How would you feel if there is an intruder currently in your house murdering your family and this neighbor is just taking his good old time and asking you for these things in the middle of all of this. Why should there be even a negotiation with the intruder without even inviting you to the table? This is what Trump has done exactly. It’s a disgrace. The response of your neighbor should’ve been with urgency, to help you because of the dire situation. Unless that neighbor somehow has favor to the intruder.  Imagine your neighbor giving you a lecture about how he wants to be fair to the intruder while you’re home is being invaded and family being murdered by that intruder. This is why Trump and Vance are a disgrace.
​ @crystalpoholka2707  I was literally just discussing exactly this with a friend. How refreshing to hear it from someone else.  I'm baffled people don't see the hypocrisy when it's so obvious.
@ first off Ukraine is not an official ally as they are not in nato. Second, what do you propose we do? Send more money to go to politicians bank accounts? Send American troops?
​ @seanhidalgo4901 he answered after the shouting match ama only when the reporter asked the same question.. since it was never answered before when zelenkski asked at first
@ It's legal via their constitution. You can argue the moral implications of it but their current suspension of elections does not make them a dictatorship. It also differs in many ways. Having no recurring election is only one part of a dictatorship, which you might argue is a crucial part, which I would also agree. However, I find it quite easy and reasonable to understand why elections have not been held in this specific circumstance. The country has been at war inside of its territorial boundaries. Not only for stability's sake, but regions of the country that could previously vote might not be able to now. I understand your perspective, but I don't see what I'm saying as "mental gymnastics". The world is not black and white or a zero sum game. There are periods of time where exceptions and changes to the status quo are made for good reason. Apologies for the overly long response.
except that it was ukraine and NATO that actually broke the last TWO ceasefires and refused to implement the Minsk 1 and MInsk 2 agreements
 @weafk  yeah I thought everyone wanted it to end I guess not 🥶
Zelensky literally rolled his eyes when Trump said "he respects me." 😂😂@8:45 This guy is something else😂
STAGED and fake. Zalenskyy is an actor and NONE OF THAT WAS AUTHENTIC  Back to the WWE days again for Donald😂
This was awful, it was like an old WWF tag team match, Mr Wrestler #1 and #2 against the Midgets/ small people but there was only one small person taking on the giants. He was trying to stand up for his country and couldn't even get a word in.
that was brokered by Ukraine and not the heavy weight USA.  Easy to break a deal like that
Very simple diplomatic scenario that these guys somehow botch beyond words.
It is a fair question but the point is it doesn’t matter.  Zelensky has no end game.  It’s not a winnable war for him.  That was JD’s point.  He has to negotiate and the US was offering him his best option.  But Zelensky just wants to keep fighting with funding by other countries and potential escalation into WW3.  Trumps point was US policy now is not to do that…
 @Chad_Max so give them the entire occupied Ukrainian territory and notch a win for Putin? Because thats the current deal on the table. You're right that it may be a stalemate and he needs to negotiate, but any peace deal needs to be at least somwhat fair for both sides and the best chance to achieve a fair deal is with the full force of U.S aid behind them. A deal to cede the territory but allow Ukraine to pursue NATO membership in the future would be a better option
 @thekaratekid6195  have you not noticed trump belittling him and acting as if Zelensky is the problem? trump is something else.
 @robsab531  look the whole 45 minutes, he said it again and again....
@JusticeForAll_4All  of course I saw it, and when I said "he is something else" about Zelensky, I didn't mean in a negative way. I meant in a room full of powerful American representatives, he showed a great lot of power by standing up not only to Trump but also to JD Vence, as well. As per Trump, he is,.... I am actually lacking an adjective, I really don't know how to end that sentence respectfully.
Very true! I'm for Trump all the way, he's doing great, but Zelensky asking a fair question and also, we never got that context from the headlines. It was 'Trump kicks Zelensky out of meeting" due to refusal to sign a deal but never the context that led to the issues with the meeting
@ Yes it was, partially.  We were still heavily supplying the allies with equipment, food, medicine, etc. before we got dragged in.  And that isolation hurt us after Pearl Harbor because it took us a year plus to ramp up our military production, mobilize, and start making any meaningful impact in the war.
 @weafk yes it will help them putin isn’t stupid n knows if he doesnt go through with the deal then trump will def push back with military support.
The question isn't a fair question. Not everyone has amnesia, Putin wasn't the one that broke the terms of the agreement, Zelensky did by passing a resolution to Join NATO. I respect that Trump and the Americans didn't point that out. The deal was Ukraine remains neutral and Russia stops aggression. So, that's what happened. Saying this doesn't make a person 'support' Russia it's just a fact.
 @weafk  a ceasefire that Putin he can break whenever Ukraine acts as a sovereign nation. Which is their right.
​ @TheDoubleg94 This wasn't a negotiation. It was supposed to be a signing ceremony. Zalinsky started an argument about the negotiation he didn't agree with.
 @kingsleyekpott9226  wasn't the resolution to join NATO well after Russia invaded? And definitely after Crimea?
Who wouldn't break it, if all it accomplished was benefiting Putin
(1) That's a critical step to stopping the war. Saving lives! (2) The USA is now involved in this ceasefire. Trump will take action if they don't honor it.
@ then the response to Zelenskyy is "if the ceasefire isn't honored we'll take swift action", not "have you even thanked me? So disrespectful, do you even want peace?". I'm sure Zelenskyy and Ukraine would love a ceasefire that actually is respected by both parties.
​ @stephenmelton2532  What makes you think we will continue to have elections if martial law is declared here?
 @seanhidalgo4901  your mutual respect will do a lot of good for people living in Ukraine. No vision. Short sighted thinking.
​@stephenmelton2532  It's in the Ukrainian Constitution that elections aren't to be held during wartime, and its been that way since before Zelenskyy was president.
 @l0ngyun3  lack of respect is largely why this situation is so difficult
Sure it's a fair question.  But he can't gamble the safety of his country on hypothetical. Trump handled it wrong, but the message is right.
@justajulie  that is a very real concern. As we saw with the democrats during the coof debacle.  Once they declared an emergency they wanted to keep extending the emergency powers...we now need prosecutions to show the next tyrant they will face consequences for abuse.
And the responses from Trump and Vance were idiotic. "Have respect..." are we watching a Godfather movie or world leaders meeting to discuss the end of a war? Someone change Trump's diaper.
 @Gooberr  1864 Abraham Lincoln stood for election.  The country was very divided, we had troops on the front line.  We held elections.  If they can suspend elections, control the media, close churches and jail opposition leaders they have no democratic values.  North Korea is a democracy as well if we look at names only. Democratic People’s Republic of North Korea.  If Z is the best choice for Ukraine then there would never be a need for elections, if it’s a democracy the people should get to weigh in on who is sending their sons to die.
And it's funny we still funnel money to Israel any clown want to tell me how that's America first.🤔🤔🤔🤔 I dare you clown yourself.
As a Trump supporter, I don’t disagree. Once someone breaks a promise, it’s hard to trust them again
People don't even realize the meeting took about 50 min in total; the media is showing only the last 10 or so.
@ people don't realize I brush my teeth in the morning either, who cares?
JD cannot answer it. He tries to change the subject and say subjective word like "disrespectful" or so on..
 @BigYoshie539  Yet America is here intervening, quite some mental gymnastic there aye?
​ @weafk a ceasefire only helps the people of Ukraine? Yeah, because they're being invaded. That's why the fire should.....y'know, cease?
​ @CB-sy4db  the only reason Russia invaded in 2014 is because they have a major navy port in Crimea.  Ukraine used to be part of the Soviet Union.  Putting will never let that go just like the US wouldn't let any of there naval bases go.  And it was negotiated by Bush senior that NATO wouldn't expand east.  But they did.  That would be like China putting military bases with missiles on the other side of the border.  The US would never tolerate that. One final note, we are not a democracy we are a Constitutional Republic.  Please educate your self on the facts and history.
Except it was Ukraine who refused to implement the minsk Agreement.
 @stephenmelton2532  This is a fair point but one must remember that Abraham Lincoln still fundamentally believed that at times democracy might have to be flexible at times. Evidence of this is Lincoln's suspension of habeas corpus which served to protect the Union. I would prefer at this point to see a Ukranian election myself however so I do not disagree with you to a large extent. The country has had alarming amounts of corruption and although, I am sure you are well aware, the country's polls indicated a 53% or whatever it was approval rating, I would be interested in seeing an election held. But I can see the arguments for why they haven't been is what I am getting at. It has been a a nice discourse my friend.🤝
 @weafk  That makes no sense. Ceasefire helps Russia far more than it does Ukraine. Time for Russia to prepare more fresh troops with their far larger country. Ukraine wants peace but they KNOW that a ceasefire will not be enough without action to prepare Ukraine for the possibility of the war starting once again. That is why he doesnt want a ceasefire, without actual Security Guarantees and action.
 @crystalpoholka2707  it's far different when Israel is the superior army to hamas.
 @Sam_T2000  ask ones why the guy in moustache now more then 80 years ago tried to… why do you think???
@ you are wrong. Ukraine benefits from a ceasefire as well because they don’t have the man power that Russia has, but if they negotiate a ceasefire and accept the mineral deal trump proposed that gives Europe and US time to economically intertwin with Ukraine which will help deter Russia from invading. If there are American and European businessmen and economic interests tied to Ukraine that creates more risk for Russia to attack again. Hence why Ukraine has reached back out to US to accept the mineral rights deal. Stop your warmongering.
 @seanhidalgo4901 trump’s got two years as president. will the ceasefire go on for only two years?
 @Sam_T2000 yeah was Gonna say .. but it's not Hamnas I was about to research into that but ... why compare why bring that in . This isn't that and this guy is a punk I'm sorry .
Its not, they cut off the question about trump being aligned with russia at thr beginning.
 @SAR_KD  They posted the full, en-edited part of the interview where they get into a shouting match. they also posted the 3 hour long video before this.
This could be case study for a communications class about how not to maintain a productive, positive meeting.
 @tv26889  not every meeting needs to be productive or positive. Trump's position is to keep America away from Europe. In that regard he did extremely well. We don't HAVE to work with Ukraine. Ukraine has to work with us. Zelensky doesn't want to provide mineral rights to end the war, he is grandstanding and that is on him, not Trump.
 @TheRandomMontages  - then why, exactly, go through all of this effort to have an in person  meeting? They could have easily scolded zelensky and ukraine through the media instead.   This was a pointless meeting that did not help any party whatsover. The worst part is how they were all smiling and giggling at the end like the topic of war and peace is some kind of joke.
Stormy Daniel's is only lady on earth who could convince little Trump 😊
 @TheRandomMontages  facts, nobody realizes that. Zelensky came in there with an attitude 😒
It didn't help that he wore his old bowling clothes to a meeting with the President and Vice President of the United States.​ @Tree-vis 
 @tv26889  Go through the media? You are kidding?! You got the uncut version with no agenda slant.
 @Ahmed-gf9bx  Hey genius how much is Stormy paying Trump now?  Duh!
 @sox-on-a-duck693  Elon with his t-shirt and son at the Oval office was ok?
 @TheRandomMontages lol you think the oceans separate us still, even after Covid? 😂 I’ll pray for you 🙏
Not the whole conversation. They left out about 38 mins that would give more context. Originally I felt like Zelenskyy didn't seem too arrogant until I saw the whole video
​ @Tree-vis  Wow, you've really fallen for Trump and Vance's BS. Zelensky is defending a sovreign democracy from being taken over by a much larger autocracy. How would you feel if China invaded Japan or South Korea. Your comment shows that you're completely ignorant of what's going on, and have fallen for poor arguments and shouting.
it's not.  the whole thing is close to an hour.
only the Holy God of heaven and earth knows the entire context behind doors and from behind it.
the thing is it's not the whole conversation but just a snippet
You’re smooth brained.. it was edited and you’re ignorant. You don’t think this was edited you’re daft
Wasn't the full conversation. The full conversation can be found at the White House website. It's 50 minutes
The actual meeting was 50 minutes long. This was the last 10 min when the show began for Putin.
 @TheRandomMontages  do you know what the Budapest memorandum is? What trump and Vance did was extortion. I wouldn’t sign anything!
People need to start THINKING!!!! This was not the full video.
​ @_rrwwcox and they worrie about medio it was looking like a gang against 1 man and answer them theway they were talking to him ,he close his mouth  every out the diplomacy, cortesy....terrible
3:45 .. Bulsh .. 🥶had a point The New oval Bench 🙈 hadn't Ever been .. but saying they are All watching out over there.. what's happening..
I'm just trying to see the "you are raising the volume of your voice but not the logic in your argument" this is what I want😂
The whole meeting took about 50 min, not 10. Don;t be a teleguided viewer.
 @TheRandomMontages  stupid reaction… you need everybody in the modern world… dont you??
 @sox-on-a-duck693  so what do i have to judge you on you’re clothing???🙈😂😂😂😂
​ @sox-on-a-duck693 He wore the same outfit to meet with the King of England the next day! 🙄
It isn't the full conversation. You're missing the beginning. I have seen the beginning.  I've yet to sit through the full conversation. I do plan to do that. I've seen enough to watch Trump attempt to set up an attitude, then in the first thing that zielinski says, JD Vance pounces in and interprets what wasn't there, like a false defect headline influencing your read of the whole article.    It was all for Tass News which was broadcasting this live to the Russian audience.
 @tv26889 they didn’t want a productive meeting. They just need Zelenskyy to agree to peace rather than to continue to beg the USA for more money we don’t even have. If he doesn’t agree that’s totally on him.
⁠Don’t expect President Trump to be a puppet like the others who merely had photo ops of them in the White House and were obsessed with pomp and circumstance. Trump is a REAL person and speaks and acts as such. Also he is an amazingly successful businessman so don’t underestimate the power of his art of the deal. This was a show and Zelenskyy got the message- it’s a peace deal or NO DEAL!
Zelensky already scammed $350 billion and is back for more what does he have to shout about
So I guess you didn't notice the fact that everyone in the room was sitting formally while zelensky was rolling his eyes and sitting with his arms crossed like a pouting child
As Trump would say, "you're wrong." they are providing him a way out
I agree , I voted for Trump and this kind of nonsensical hostile behavior to our allies is not what I wanted .
​ @Texan1840 me too. He's an embarrassment. Not that he wasnt before but he has totally gone off his rocker since he got reelected. I have made a terrible mistake voting for this clown. Not that the Biden or Kamala aren't  clowns too. It's the level of disrespect and name calling that is different with Trump. If Regan was alive today and president he would of been stern but respectfull.
This whole country is screwed. I wish we had better options outside of Joe, Kamala and trump. I wish Vivek Ramsey stayed in the race.
Of course not, he's not in his country surrounded by his people.
​ @ILikeGuns24 😂 350? Where? Between 120 to 160. No more. And remember that money never left US. They have used to buy American weapons
​ @Texan1840 friend, you must've missed every previous occurrence of him acting unbecoming when talking to others. He's been demonstrating behavior like this since I can remember.
Zelinsky is the one failing. the guy is a complete weasel
 @Texan1840  Did you even watch the video? Zelensky was the one who started questioning JD about talking about diplomacy. He wasn't there to talk about peace.
Interesting point. I didn’t see it that way. Thank you for sharing. 👍🏻
Because all he does is deflect and talk over people lol
They ganged up on him and I honestly think he handled it very well 🤷🏻‍♂️🇺🇦
U don't come into somebody else's house (a house you've been given hundreds of millions from), say we're not doing enough, then make passive aggressive comments about "you will feel it in the future" and expect to be well received.
he speaks slowly and trump is impatient and had no desire to listen.
 @ronaldcatullus call him simple minded because you have no real rebuttal 😂
 @ronaldcatullus simple minded.  Bullshyt. As an American I don’t want American money going to Ukraine.
 @everybeautyneedsalibrary  pretty sure that question was answered when he said your not a tough guy without us
Lot of trolls on here defending foreign power very risky game
 @elcuzo890 that’s because Trump has trouble understand complex conversations. His vocabulary is limited. He’s not a statesmen. He’s the founding father’s worst nightmare. They never for saw a buffoon of his magnitude.
They left out about 38 mins that would have given more context
Like 30 seconds after trump says ukraine isn't going to work
​ @YG1935  Probably just how it is in Ukraine. John Fetterman never wears a suit either and wears a hoodie.
​@jasonjohnson3424  he was clearly getting at if they were to fall we would feel it later. It's not a threat, but a possible reality because if Ukraine falls. And all of Europe next. Guess who's next. It's us here in the US. But ur too much of a smooth brain to figure that out.
​ @jasonjohnson3424 they weren't even listening you can clearly see they had their minds made up it didn't matter what he said
​ @YG1935 he don't wear the suit because of war. It's his principal position
 @brandonsmith5880 ganged up he in America doing interview he need to sign that cease fire
 @elcuzo890  "Words so slow, not great, slowest words I ever heard." Trump is not a smart man.
 @tylerreigle6462  The Budapest memorandum, which in return for Ukraine giving up their nuclear arsenal, 3 nations agreed to their sovereignty. The United Kingdom, The United States, and the Russian Federation. In the agreements; should any of the three nations put Ukraine's sovereignty under threat, the other nations are then compelled to come to Ukraine's aid.   Russia is now putting Ukraine's sovereignty under siege, so therefor; We're obligated to fulfill our side of the memorandum. The UK is still supporting them, what does that say about us?
THANK YOU!!!!! I was thinking the same thing like a bunch of men needing to have a pissing contest…… you’re in no position to tell us what to feel…….. come on now you’re our president and you don’t know that’s not what he was doing!!!!!!! —embarrassed— 😖
​ @ambers. Like you've never got caught up in your words. Everyone has, theres been times my words have come out backwards, like dyslexia speaking. Im a very intelligent and  educated woman.
Yes, I agree. It look like an ambush, behavior was unprofessional and arrogant.
@vulp3295  and around that same time actually a little earlier than 94 we told the Russians we wouldn't expand NATO eastward of where the line of influence was drawn and that was half way across Germany and every sitting president since has expanded NATO eastward to the point of the Biden administration saying publicly they want ukraine in NATO, so let me ask you this, if Russia or China made an alliance with Mexico or Canada and moved their military and missles into one of those countries we would tolerate that? Ukraine has a ton of issues and the biggest one is their president and he really doesn't want this war to end he just wants more US dollars and military equipment and I'm sorry but it's not worth potentially starting WW3 over, if Zelensky is smart he'll make the deal with Trump and be able to save his country
guy has no right to talk with that half trillion debt hes in upto his throat
 @mistyrious1111starseed  He doesn't need more excuses made for him and honestly I can't tell if this is sarcasm or not.
​@YG1935 why is that even a concern? If you actually looked you can find he stated as long as he is at war and his forces are fighting he will not be wearing a suit.
@kjellakejoakimsvensson8125  necause Z was disrespectful to the usa ... and was disrespectful to trump who try to stop the war ...
​ @nirab9553 the president of a country whose international reputation earned it the nickname "bread basket of Europe" is telling you if it falls to one of your two biggest rivals, "you will feel it". And the simple minded are hearing, with all ego and no intellect, "passive aggressive" talk and not a legitimate warning of the global implications. Do you need me to connect the actual dots or are you getting the picture now?
​ @HotSauce-mn1mp Yes. American money should stay in Amaruca not go to Ukraine.
The man was talking in circles. Our skeletons would’ve been gathered at the tv decades from now listening to jargon.
 @jasonjohnson3424  he’s wright also if you make a deal with Putin you never gonna win!! Never
 @HotSauce-mn1mp  neather do we europeans but there is also a gentlemen agreement if a country is attacked en when civilians are murdered on scale ( exept Israel offcourse ) with no any reason you have to stand up against the aggressor!!
 @elcuzo890  "He speaks slowly succinctly, but trump is impatient too stupid to understand the words spoken, so he had no desire ability to listen comprehend. There! Fixed it for ya! 😉
 @PhillipG34  I have family living in Germany, I'm VERY concerned for them. The Russians would have to take Poland first, but from there Germany would most likely become the next target for Putin's greed and hostility. Most Americans are very ignorant of European history and geography, and it's never been more obvious.
Churchill wore a boiler suit during World War 2 in public while he was leading his country in war against  the Germany . A man who liked suits but this attire showed he was leading his country at War.
Its bizarre that the administration is being this transparent and media is not willing to show complete truth!
Looking for this authentic one before watch the fussing comments all over yesterday till today. I say thanks a lot. Mean it
The actual meeting was like 50 minutes long. There's about 35 minutes before all this. So definitely not the "full" video
I’ve like the shows recently. Easier yo watch all the way thru! Keep it up y’all.
the sad part is, this is not the whole conversation though
Most of the time its not up to WSJ is like trump said he let them run the cams
Trump would not let him answer!!!!!!! ANYTHING!!!!! I WISH HE WOULD HAVE AT LEAST LET HIM ANSWER!!!!
 @aswini4222  Since when has trump EVER been transparent, honest or moral.
What ... the best newspaper on the planet even better than the NY times.
Actually the video is 50 minutes. This is cut. And they are blatantly lying in your face.
​ @MicheleDenise782 Disagree with you. Zelensky WAS RUDE AND INTERRUPTING PRESIDENT TRUMP AND THE VICE PRESIDENT JD VANCE.
WSJ is mostly concerned with Wall Street and stock values. The current administration is causing an uneasy stock market and investors don't like such volatility. That's why I'll never understand why financial experts would ever vote for DJT. Yes, the economy did well for his first couple of years of his first term, but his mishandling of COVID caused many people to lose their retirement investments. He started off well because President Obama handed him a healthy, growing economy. My IRA account grew under Obama, but was pretty stagnant under trump. “In many cases, I probably identify more as Democrat,” Trump told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer in a 2004 interview. “It just seems that the economy does better under the Democrats than the Republicans. Now, it shouldn’t be that way. But if you go back, I mean it just seems that the economy does better under the Democrats. …But certainly we had some very good economies under Democrats, as well as Republicans. But we’ve had some pretty bad disaster under the Republicans.” In 2004, trump backed Hillary, and said that Hillary Clinton would be a strong negotiator with foreign nations. He was right about that, as she was an excellent Sec. of State.
Yeah. It’s like they are an actual news outlet and not just some guy with a podcast and an opinion. 😂 I get tired of the commentary too, brother. It is refreshing to see this in a way that doesn’t try to influence the opinion of the viewer.
Respectfully if you’re trying to get protection from a country that’s already gifted you $150 billion plus in war aid you don’t act like an entitled brat, you kiss their feet and thank them profusely…
 @TheGreatSalsaMan  He thanked the people who gave his country protection, he opposed the people trying to extort his country for natural resources. Seems pretty consistent to me.
Yeah, watching him and JD having a JO contest was really dignified. blegh.
That is the first time I have seen him in a meeting didn’t even realize he was a real person
​ @Hankblue nobody extorting him the USA can't just be handing out money like that. First not our problem and we need guarantees that we at least getting some of it back. It's fair for all the help we giving them
​@TheGreatSalsaMan  🇺🇦 is a sovereign nation not some banana Republic
Great observation, that doesn't impress me. He definitely needs work as a statesman.
JD is the vice president . He should have a day
 @jasonxirum2182  You don’t understand how things work do you?  This post just made everyone understand how The Orange one’s supporters think. What a shame.
​ @TheGreatSalsaMan  Do you prefer to do like Europe, which had to give not only money but also take responsibility for many refugees, while having a war literally at its doorstep, knowing that its hands are tied because it can't intervene on its own initiative due to NATO agreements (rightfully so)... an organization that even the US voluntarily belongs to and now wants to repudiate because "boo hoo hoo we don't want to spend money anymore"...please 🙄
No Zelensky attacked him for a comment that was about Biden. Thats what started the row. Before that everyone was talking to the audience.
 @Hankblue Sure does seem consistent to people like you. You consistently look over why people have a problem with this as well
 @TheGreatSalsaMan  Nothing is respectful about this comment, and where do you see him acting like an entitled brat? Are you watching the same video as everyone else? This comment is incredibly inhumane and disgusting. Ukraine was invaded by the Russians in 2014 all the way up until the present. Hundreds and thousands of military casualties and tens of thousands of civilian casualties. Its beyond me how you can defend Trump and the VP, where is your humanity?
 @TheGreatSalsaMan  how is that solving the problem and making a deal? Vance got stumped so he brought up the most irrelevant thing to say and diverting the point. He's a bully with home court advantage, he would never stick up for the underdog even if facts support.
Yes, I saw that too. Vance set the entire tone of the meeting gaslighting him and bullying.  Why is Vance even talking?  Because he set the stage for Trump and is telling him how to respond.   that’s his job.  If anything happens to Trimp, this is what we’d get i  Vance.
He’s a boot licker. How else would someone so inexperienced get the VP gig. And it shows.
I think your observation is correct. I think his response to JD is the beginning of where this took a turn. Obviously we expect there is a lot happening in the background (apparently Biden would yell at him due to his attitude). Either way, I think JD communicated perfectly and, to me, it looked like Zelensky was trying to engage in provocation.
Dude you are simple…  watch the meeting and actually listen to it.
I think zelensky triggers the whole situation when he first started attacking russian majority villages
Absolutely, got that sense. He mostly has been out of the spotlight until now with Elon and Trump soaking it all in.
He definitely did! Yes, I agree and he wasn't disrespectful. The behavior was unprofessional and arrogant.
Zelensky was trying to flex in front of the media first, acting arrogant and hes there begging for more and not agreeing to peace talks. Is anyone paying attention??
​@Pupil187fsg Oh well Zelensky shouldn't have had that tone in the first place. If you didn't hear him. He is visiting a foreign leader in his country and he needs something from that country.
​ @TheGreatSalsaMan disgusting. To expect someone to act that why just because you helped a country to not be killed in a war they did not start... It shows that you have zero empathy. It's disgusting how people like you talk like that when it's about the suffering of millions of people. You, sitting in your chair at home with no bombs in sight.  Your parents must be so proud
@ personally if someone gifted me $150 billion dollars I wouldn’t have to act like i like them…😅
or talking intelligently to make a point, I get how you couldn't understand it!
Anybody Else Notice How much Higher J.D. Vance's Microphone is Turned Up !! He's Emulating his Dear Leader's Bellowing Tactics !!
 @TheGreatSalsaMan are you one of the ‘historians’ unaware of the Budapest Memorandum? We owe them defense for arbitrating the transfer of their weapons
 @merrytunes8697  And are you one of the historians that read it in full detail knowing the USA is only obligated to give aid in the event nuclear weapons are used by the invading party? 🙃 Articles 4 and 5 if you don’t believe me and need to refresh your knowledge 😘  "Seek immediate Security Council action to provide assistance to the signatory if they "should become a victim of an act of aggression or an object of a threat of aggression in which nuclear weapons are used"”  The UN Security Council is obligated to protect Ukraine. We’re basically funding them under no obligation to do so and can revoke said funding and request it back at any given time.
 @TheGreatSalsaMan  Do treaties not matter anymore to the US? Budapest Memorandum
⁠there are SIX articles. The articles ALL dictate that America has an obligation to assist Ukraine. The US tried to exploit Ukraine, which directly conflicts with Section 3.
Zelensky: they broke the ceasefire , what diplomacy are you talking about   Vance: the kind of diplomacy that stops your people from getting killed   Actually what was said smh
@travesham context is a bit out of order, do you work for CNN?
You're the type of person that gives your money to African Princes when they email you.
 @Garrett-fn4il  Feel free to demonstrate how I’m incorrect as opposed to simply saying that I am.
 @jasonr375  Tell me how, I’m open to hearing opposing views. Obviously, I’m not trying to get scammed. Help me out by telling me what I said was wrong?
I’m pretty sure Ukraine broke the peace agreement with a little help from Boris Johnston
What’s your solution? Keeping funding Ukraine until the end of time?
BS, bottom line is DJT first, he cares only about himself.
 @cameronesisuri1600  Is there a middle ground between “infinite funds” and blatant disrespect? Can we at least start with not insulting the man who is representing a nation that is fighting for its sovereignty while also shaming him for having the gall to stand up for himself? Can we at least start there?
 @travesham  absolutely we can start there. Then what’s your peace deal since you seem to be omnipotent?  Does ukraine get the Donbas or Crimea back?  Does Ukraine join NATO? Does NATO up their military funding (as their secretary general has begged them to do) to deter further Russian aggression?  An off-ramp must be provided and the off-ramp will likely not be very palatable for the Ukrainians, but they would have lost everything if it wasn’t for support from the US and NATO.
Dont twist words. It was "What diplomacy, JD, are you talking about?" That is seriously mocking and challenging tone. He needs to use the words properly and they will come only when the heart has some gratitude in it which is what Vance pointed out.
​ @truthseeker4838  well what f democracy is JD talking about??? Because he signed treaties abd putin broke them. So what diplomacy??
 @truthseeker4838  Yes. His people have been dying. For years. He has agreed to terms and Putin has gone back on them and killed more people. Zelensky is now being told “you’re wrong,” “say thank you,” and that he’s not being diplomatic while he’s actively being insulted. I think wondering how much more diplomacy he can show is a valid question.
You don’t think Ukraine broke agreements as well that would have caused an invasion from Russia. Like developing nukes? Building up military forces on russias border with a nato alliance that Putin stated many times he did not want?
@ you perhaps meant diplomacy, not democracy. Because we know Ukraine is not democratic now. Anyway, the point was when you want to challenge someone, there are phrases like "I beg to differ", "I disagree" rather than ask in a direct rhetorical question without the F word that you sued but which was meant. That's enough to trigger anyone, especially when someone is a lendor.
@ the saying thank you is figurative - dont get hung up on words. The attitude is what they are questioning. He comes with an air of "I am the superhero fighting Russia, so support me if not you will also face the heat" - another bad choice of argument he did which triggered Trump. Why would you use threats against America to gain more from America. It is calling instantly the American leadership as fool, weak and your might is hollow to face Russia with only ocean helping you out now. Very bad choice of words by Zelensky. He should know to use words better, but in his head he has this air of superhero so the gentle words will not come.
 @qolgezus1165  You mean bending the knee to Putin and Dumpy? That diplomacy? Lets get real thats what Dumpy wants and thats not diplomacy. I actually want to know what Putin is going give Dumpy for this deal cause you know Dumpy is getting something from this.
 @Garrett-fn4il  It is pretty much spot on, nice try faux five news but you aint fooling no one with a brain cell here lol
You didn't sign a dam thing. 😂😂😂 Your just as delusional as these 3.
Obviously a lose lose situation for Zelenski, but doubting their diplomatic integrity to their face WHILE there for another diplomacy agreement is not a smart move, no matter how you cut it.
Ukraine needs to give something in return for USA. This is Vietnam all over, getting in a war that's not your war.
@ I don’t necessarily disagree that there should be something in return. But the Vietnam comparison is completely hyperbolic. We do not have troops on the ground in Ukraine, our soldiers are not dying, we are not firebombing Russia. This absolutely is not the same as Vietnam.
 @travesham  the US has military advisors in Ukraine right now. Just like we did in Vietnam before the Gulf of Tonkin. Our weapons and missiles are being used against russia. The comparison to Vietnam is fairly apt in my opinion
 @davidcarroll5701 oh that crazy hair former London major the war last that long ? Lost focus and lose emphatic to be honestly
 @truthseeker4838 poor guy need ESL advanced education before this meeting. No kidding I mean it.
 @travesham they say it’s a agency war except USA boots on the ground of Ukrainian
​ @travesham this started because zelensky who was installed, not voted in, wanted to join nato which was a direct violation to a treaty theyve had with Russia. You probably haven't researched it but Ukraine is not innocent in any of this either. They could have avoided an invasion by not trying to ally with nato who by the way invaded and bombed way more people than russia ever could in the past 20 years
@ ...Maybe? I dunno. I didn't make any claims about anything being "mind blowing."
@ When you say Vietnam, I’m thinking upwards of 50,000 dead American soldiers, our troops slaughtering villages, US forces occupying another nation in an attempt to seek out and eliminate an enemy on their own soil. This is not that.  If you want to say that this is similar to the conditions before Vietnam, that’s a better comparison. It’s not looking great and we should be concerned. But given that our current president seems to favor Putin and absolutely will not go to war with him (not saying that I want him to), it’s hard for me to compare the two unless some kind of direct conflict actually happens.   To me, the much more concerning thing is that we are killing our credibility on the world stage and making enemies of our allies.
@ Zelensky was elected in 2019, and there's no treaty with Russia that prohibits Ukraine from joining NATO.
Trump and Van looking weak and making Americans look like wussies.  😂
I think Trump wants to show his friendship to Putin on this meeting:)
 @travesham the only similarity is: the countries in the war aren’t you. Is this a problem that the United States 🇺🇸 should be taking on?
​ @Curt-iy7ck he was voted in, the problem is he promised to make peace
Keep tellin us not to believe our lying eyes😂. “Biden harris was great years!”😂😂😂😂
 @truthseeker4838 It's impossible not to mock JD when responding to his nonsense optimism about Russian diplomacy. An idiot will always feel mocked when confronted
We handed them 360 billion Dollars and are the only reason their country still exists. That's enough for them? No, he wants more. Disrespectful.
 @TalonMerlin777  We did not give them 360 million. Most of what we gave them was in the form of old and unused military equipment that we had already paid for and were continuing to pay to maintain and keep secure. Most of what we gave them was stuff that was actually costing us money to keep and we had no use for it.  But again, Vance has straight up said that he will lie to your face to get you to think how he wants you to think. But hey, keep believing him because of the R next to his name.
Why is it even our problem?? 😂 if someone in Maine has their power go out you gonna go help them? I’d guess probably not because it isn’t your problem. Why are we still being the world police
How about the agreement signed with russia to not expand nato  and then they did the complete opposite, Russia said if you can go back on agreements we can too.
​ @BreakdownxD correction Israel first. Still sending them money no difference than ukraine
 @qolgezus1165  For JD to imply that the President that DID NOT go back on their agreement to cease fire is displaying a lack of diplomacy is wild.
​@truthseeker4838  im not siding with either side because both looked bad in this video but JD could and should have been the bigger man in this video. He was showing off for the cameras in this argument because he was disrespectful.  I'm not saying zelensky was any better but the man's people are being murdered. The press asked good questions and in my opinion zelensky does deserve a good clear answer to if putting breaks the agreement. If it's happened before multiple times through multiple president's, then trumps response was meaningless. You can't just say because it's me that's making the deal, in wwe that may fly but this deals with peoples lives.
 @qolgezus1165 that’s not specific though, it’s a very broad statement. Zelensky was speaking on diplomacy in the way that Russia went back on it. He was trying to question how Vance and Trump think that diplomacy would work if Russia already went back on diplomacy, if that makes sense
Someone has to stand up for the Ukrainian men forced into the military and to the front lines. It has to stop! If you think they were harsh on Zelensky, talk to the families of the men dying. The same can be said with Russia. They need to put their egos aside and stop the war.
​@Papabird0918 I think that part of the conversation has to be behind closed doors. They have to negotiate with both sides. They can't come across threatening one side for the other, or the whole negotiation falls apart. The down side to making promises at this point in front of the cameras far out weights the benefits.
That question is an insult. Never mind he lied. But what he is saying is you people are stupid. Z also supported the Gaza gunoside. So why is he complaining about Russian invasion.
Haha uhh no… he is bitching about a problem he is not able to solve himself and is being rude to the one person that can solve it for him.
I completely agree. JD was the guy who really started the qualm. There was no need for this conversation to get as heated as it did
 @davidwong5197  Zelenski is a horrible person, yes, but that was a valid question
Nah dog, you don’t challenge the VP in the Oval Office on worldwide TV.
I disagree. If I were Trump I would have done the same as Trump did in this video, because Trump is an idiot and if I'm Trump that'd make me an idiot too ^^
@ challenge? I mean, I guess, but JD was saying Trump has been bringing diplomacy to this war, Zelenski stated what's been happening (and omitted a bit that makes him look bad) and asked JD to specify what diplomacy Trump has brought in his presidencies. If you say smth, be prepared to back it up and don't get mad when asked to
Vance should have never been there … where was the Secretary of State?
Yup. He has no business in that room but neither does Trxmp.
 @stevenlatour1342  its the vp not the king LOL, we as americans are supposed to challenge our own government why cant other countries challenge our overextended authority?
I think it's not that JD doesn't know how to respond Zelenzky, He just baffled that Zelensky dare to attack him in his turf in front of the media. It is started with Zelensky refusing the US diplomacy
JD is a yes man as everybody else around trump but he’s also insinuating and passive aggressive from the get go
Considering these dynamics, the responsibility for the meeting's negative outcome can be estimated as follows:  Vice President JD Vance: 50% President Donald Trump: 35% President Volodymyr Zelenskyy: 15%   analysis BY  CHATGPT
JD Vance felt threatened of the question 'what do you mean by diplomacy and made everyone go into egostatic situation. Both trump and Zelensky never guessed the outcome of the meeting would go like this. Hope trump realises this and make JD shut up next time. he look smart act smart but has no brain. other than trying to be on the good side of Trump. He is a good second hand man, I will give him that. But not good in global politics. this was so unnecessary.
Zelensky made a law that forbade Ukraine from any negotiation with Russia. And he is also an unelected president given he has been in power for more than a year now without elections in ukraine.   The guy closed the door and threw the key. He is now completely unfit to be in any negotation with Russia legally representing ukraine. Not to mention Ukraine abandoned the Istambul talks 1 month into the conflict when the war had just started when they already had a draft of agreements. Even before that Ukraine broke the two minsk agreements (with the support and complicity of the US)  JD Vance is completely right Ukraine has had no intention to negotiate at any point.
Great analysis! I tend to agree but who can trust Zelensky.
The turning point was when Zelensky directed a question at Vance. That was out of place. He should have let the press finish the questioning a dn then ask whatever question in private
I thought JD handled it perfectly and I am so shocked and proud to have a VP like him.
 @veronicamarrs  I'm just shocked that you're proud to have a VP like him.
 @AriMaccabi  ICC ICJ said so. You know international law better than they do?
A politician than can not stand up to a challenge should not be a politician
Zelensky should not have started the debate infront of media. Thats where the problem started
That’s ridiculous nonsense. By that logic, anytime you make a weak, basically untrue point, and the other person responds, you can say “how dare you—your question is disrespectful!”  It’s actually far more disrespectful to be talking to a person who—whatever one’s feelings about Ukraine— has been heroically leading his own country these past few hellish years, and be so utterly dismissive of the many millions of his people who have died… I like Vance, a lot (or I thought I did)— But he behaved here like a smug, arrogant SOB.
Was it the question about visiting his country? Or was it about Putin breaking the ceasefire agreement?
@ it was when Zelensky asks what diplomacy JD is referring to because he explains that when they tried diplomacy agreements, it didn’t work with Putin. So he’s wondering what will actually be done. He knows Putin won’t even get a slap on the wrist from Trump.
Who's out of their element? Tbf Zelensky wants to talk hypotheticals when he has no choice but to keep trying diplomacy on all sides. Is what it is. Crying about the past doesn't mean you quit trying for the future. Yes we all know how things got here and the world is trying to help you, airing your grievances when he did was wrong time/place
 @muddyhotdog4103  I didn’t realize he had the power to hold press conferences in the Oval Office.
That is exactly what the vp did and I'm a Republican. JESUS
That's because Zelensky doesn't want a ceasefire with concessions russia doesn't want to allow, but at this point he has to otherwise US aid will slow. That's why he consistently keeps rejecting any deal he doesn't like a cites times putin has violated agreements. If say you don't believe the other party will uphold their end of the deal, you can continue to reject deals and continue the war indefinitely.
 @OGPvPMC  oligarch stuff. Can't swing a dead cat you ain't hit an olly
Nah! Zelenskyy was blaming Trump for all his beef with prior Administrations. Glad President Trump and VP Vance put him in his place. America is respected again ❤️ 🇺🇸🇺🇸
That's all Trump can do. Anytime someone calls out his BS he starts screaming and crying
@  phoenix , I’m sorry your parents raised you in a house with peeling lead paint.. you could’ve been so much more intelligent…
 @michaelfisherpeters  not even a little. It’s nice to see our leadership call out dirt bags
 @viscose808  you mean the one that had absolutely nothing to do with the discussion of Ukraine war? Goofy
Yeah true, still if thats the only things from this youre kind of grasping at straws. You've made plenty of mistakes in your life too. Also i am writing this before finishing the video so hold on because this might get worse.
 @Josh-up5pf it shows the lack of attention to detail Trump has as well as the deflection. Vance had a better sense of the conversation than Trump which was pretty evident. The fact that you’re trying to dismiss the other guy’s comment just because he called a minor detail that establishes a greater weakness in Trump overall shows you’re grasping at straws to protect your fandom of Trump
you don't get it? your picking at something that small because you couldnt find anything actually to hate about, the reason he said that is because 2015 is when he started taking things seriously so he mistook Zelensky and thought he was blaming him directly when in fact Zelensky was talking in general, small miscommunication, cry about something important.
 @jrcrit8843  yeah because biden or kamala would be having productive conversations with him 😆get real.
​ @Josh-up5pf It's indicative of his mindset, he's motivated almost entirely by ego
 @BearManPiggy  I thought it was funny that he tried to be correct and then tries to justify being incorrect in such a lame way. But you're definitely right, I was crying, you caught me. You should definitely go find other people that are crying and call them out!
@crypt5129  i think that guy is still grasping at straws but I see what yall mean he got way too angry and wouldn't even listen to zelensky jd Vance had to step in and be like yo the reporters are trying to say that what if Russia breaks the ceasefire and trump just blows up. But yeah I do like trump hes gettin things done.
 @jrcrit8843  still grasping at straws but yeah jd vance is definitely better at mediating
Trump said he wasn't there he meant he wasn't in office that year.
it was more of an asking lke "hey are we talking about 2015 or?"  not like "no ur wrong it was 2015" big difference
 @jillsy2815  it doesn't matter if he wasn't president really. as president, you should be expected to know this, especially if you're trying make a deal on it. anyone that reads politics knows this. Trump is just not very smart and anything that reveals it bruises his ego, which is part of why he tries to downplay being wrong about the year.
 @kreigkubachi3732  He's got an entire country to answer to. Imagine expecting trump to be humble if we needed help from another country?
Yeah after seeing the guys ego, how is it a set up to say your country is poor
Do you not realize how much joe biden gave this guy and there back to square 1 still ? Your an embarrassment bro.
@CurtDogg34  "you're" and i feel so ashamed now that you have put me in my place
It's embarrassing because they left out about 38 mins of context
No, they were transparent for all to see that the gravy train stops now. We gave BILLIONS of dollars towards the war! Enough is enough! Last week a homeless man froze to death in my state. We need to get people off the streets here and care for our own first!
 @MrMarlonG  No, it’s a national problem. The homeless population has increased exponentially.
​ @CatsAreNiceMeow I'm sure all the people Doge are firing and other countries deciding not to sale American products will really help that.
 @MrMarlonG and the Ukraine v Russia war is a Ukraine problem. Not a US problem.
Calls Trump Mr President.....refers to JD Vance as JD...and JD Vance respectfully addresses Zelenskyy as "Mr President"....pay attention to body language too....
Trump and Vance are within their rights to disagree with Zelensky but don’t berate him like a child or someone inferior. He is the invited leader of another country. They would never talk that way with Putin, Xi Jinping or Netanyahu.
How did they set him up when he's the one that started and escalated everything?
@MrMarlonG  oh sorry about my Grammer King ...im Finna Fix Dat right Quik . 😆 🤣
stay out of politics then if you cant handle it, it clearly not for you, go to your room your parents are having a discussion.
 @sfmc98 coming in desperate and talking like that to our president in his house is not okay either! we are not obligated to help ANYONE!!! okay??
​ @kreigkubachi3732 where exactly did he snapped the hand that was feeding him? Why would you state such nonsense. He was thankful the whole time for any help he got and respectfully asked for more help, always with good arguments to explain his position.
How would you treat someone who always comes to your house expecting money?
 @CatsAreNiceMeow  And that homeless man would not have died if the U.S never supported Ukraine??!
@ Maybe not because we spent BILLIONS on their endless war.
 @bigd1223  that's quite stupid how you frame it here. He doesn't just come and expect money. He was invited to visit the white house for discussions about financial help. He doesn't just expect it. He goes around to ask for help
Would not can this a setup. Zelensky turned this into a circus..those in glass houses shouldn't throw stones
Go watch the full 59 mins of it.....not just a small snippet.
“What diplomacy do you mean, JD?”    I guess you skipped right over that.
 @CatsAreNiceMeow regardless of charity your homeless and people will never see billions dedicated to you, you don’t get it, us don’t give unless they get 5X back. They want ukraines minerals regard
Imagine a person who comes to your home to ask you for help. This little thief has an  arrogant attitude. He wants to look like a tuff guy. Right on President Trump!
​ @CatsAreNiceMeow Yes I agree. 350 billion dollars is a lot of money that was wasted and he needs more money. For what! To give to NATO!!!
We already gave this guy 350 billion of tax payer money and he is looking for more.... If you are so concerned about how callous the conversation was spoken then you pay for his war, leave my tax money here in the US where it belongs.
Watch the whole 50 minutes instead of making assumptions over the heated end part. Everything that was said before led to this conclusion! If one cant acknowledge that both sides acted bad, there is something wrong with you.
It’s embarrassing that Zelensky doesn’t respect US, doesn’t respect The President, doesn’t respect anybody who was in that room, trying to help to solve the situation. That’s really embarrassing 😳
@cplcummins  it IS a setup, otherwise you wouldn't escalate such a situation Infront of cameras. Because it is as pathetic as it is. And he is not in a glass house. He responded to something important. But they just wanted to escalate it and waited for something like this.  And what you call here "someone in a glasshouse" is meant to describe a president who traveled that long way to ask Americans for help? Glasshouse because his nation is bombed by Putin? Do you not realise how stupid that is? Do you have zero empathy for the people in Ukrain?
​​ @bigd1223 How would you treat a home intruder?  Would you tell the home owner that they started it,  they aren't negotiating enough, and they should let the intruder have the house...?  Putin and Russia attacked Ukraine, Trump blamed it all on Zelensky... and then said Zelensky isn't friendly toward Putin and needs to try harder to make peace...
Also, for those talking about Zelensky coming here to ask for more money...  He came to sign an agreement for us to take Ukraine's resources in exchange for our continued support.  Did everyone just skip that part?  And was nonstop insulted while trying to politely answer a question.   Wow... for a group of people that believes in the right to bear arms to defend ourselves, we're sure quick to tell another country to surrender to a dictator... and if that's how you treat your friends...  Last thing... we only won our independence because France helped us fight the British... what if France had said "You obviously haven't done enough to make amends with England and you're expensive.   That money could be used for other things in France"?
 @mdc-jamz6967  Trump, JD, and Zelenski is already a pretty wrecked home lol
I think that's why all decent people are disgusted by it. Because most of us have at least some experience of what it's like to be belittled, gaslighted and talked over. And we know it never solved anything.
 @mleiblie0513 Definitely a good thing. Zelensky wants to keep on spending America’s Money 💰!!!
Dude, scary?  This is REAL life, not a tea party or slackers hitting on bongs....All men need to "man up" at some point or we are a lost nation of crybabies.
Its like watching a parent lecture you and talk down to you.
I’m sorry to hear that. I hope they can be patient with each other and with themselves.
one parent isalways the child - trump is the emotionally immature one here
“We’re aligned with the world”. Thank God we have POTUS Trump and VP Vance‼️❤️
 @beagoodhuman-q3m  ok and zelenskiy sitting there acting like he was alone, begging for money? My tax dollars paid for this guy to still be alive
whats crazy and reality is that people, human beings are getting slaughthered on both sides, from Russia and from Ukraine. Families destroyed and you have the nerve to make a corelatiion to your parents?
Oh he’s getting yelled at poor him maybe don’t go into the White House and threaten USA that they’re gonna feel the wrath .
 @Zaythefishgeek  First, you're calling people slow without using any sort of punctuation. Ironic. Second, he said thank you twice, said he needed help, and then JD Vance started berating him and Trump joined in. Have you SEEN the entire 50-minute meeting all the way through??
Would you have preferred Trump handed him over billions of dollars no questions asked like sleepy joe did?
 @Butterfly213-b9m  So, why would we actively pay billions of dollars to a country that has been ravaging another nation full of innocent people, even if both sides are being attacked relentlessly, and NOT do the same to a nation up against a nuclear power that's been at war for twice as long? Your biases show clearly. I can tell you didn't think this through.
I agree with you. He was a guest and was invited. That meeting should not have gone that way.
He didn't threaten, he's in no position to. Trump kissing up to Putin, Vance kissing up to Trump. ​ @Zaythefishgeek 
 @Zaythefishgeek   I didn’t see a threat, maybe provide me with a timestamp of it .
 @neru5839 and I can tell you have to deflect because you have no argument.
​ @Butterfly213-b9m He made a strong point about your bias and that's all you can say? You're clearly the one with no argument.
Pre-school logic. "They're yelling at the murderer and he's the one going in heckin' jail????"
​​ @neru5839 and before this meeting, Trump blamed Ukraine for the war. Never forget that
​​ @Zaythefishgeek  He said two things if you couldn't understand his accent he told the vice president all the past presidents talked  and they still got occupied so what diplomacy are you talking about? This is infront the media, and number 2 He said Trump would feel it. How can you say that to me using my cash , my ammunition my missles. And I am telling you to stop. Hence the reason he was destroyed. Don't let the soft spoken accent fool you. This man ready to fight for 10 more years with American money
 @Zaythefishgeek He told the truth, dolt. So sorry that you can’t take it.
Okay so what basically happened here was that they were under impression that everything was set and this was being finalized. Instead he waited until the camera's were on him called the person they are trying to negotiate a peace with evil(he is but if you are actually suing for peace, don't do that) tried showing dead bodies and such. This is basic emotional manipulation and incredibly rude to do when under the pretense of signing an agreement. His concerns about Putin's honesty are valid but this was NOT the way to try to bully someone not prepared on camera into agreeing with you. He thinks you are idiots and apparently he's right.
No, they talk sternly. That’s not shouting. Don’t be a regard
What????? Zelensky needed to be checked. He was being disrespectful to the president in his own Oval Office. He was discussing the wrong things in the wrong time.
So, we should support Zelensky when most of the funding we have given him has disappeared, and he watches he citizens needlessly die for his corruption. Sick.
You've clearly never been around team sports or anything involving getting coached if you think this is shouting 😂
In our country. In our white house. HE IN OUR HOUSE. I SPEAK LIKE THAT IN MY HOUSE TO! If you don’t your weak
Big daddy trump can't handle it. You should always be prepared to talk about the issues if you're not full of it. Trump needs some powder room time to get his lies straight and remember what he or others told him? ​ @Loudaddy 
Good. He’s a little goblin and his cash cow is empty. No more funding for his corrupt country. Defend yourself
They were being assertive, so tired of the left winged drama. Trump knows exactly what he's doing.
His entire premise was to get another fat check and he ran into a leader who wasn’t having it.
 @TettyBoyFloyd they were being rude from the very beginning when they were outside when commenting on his clothes. They’re bullies
Oh, really? Ukraine started this war, not Russia. Zelensky was the first one who was shouting. Please educate yourself first.
​ @TexasWreckShop men need to do some counseling, you'll think this is productive 🥴👍
​ @spidey5324 and productive? We had an agreement, we are the corrupt ones 🙃👎
​ @fkan3803 why bc we had an agreement and us wasn't holding up their end of the deal, who's the weak corrupt ones
YOU HAVE TO KNOW WHEN TO SHUT UP! ZELENSKY DIDN'T KNOW WHEN TO SHUT UP!
 @brandonmiller4361  This is not how real men talk. You dont show this much emotion ever in public! Its a sign of bad self control and you can never, ever trust a over emotional leader. Pls
Agreed! Zelensky was interrupted on multiple occasions when he explained the problem of Putin breaking the deal multiple times
⁠ @AUseventysix $350 billion  and military equipment deserves a thank you, and the American probably would have loved a thank you considering the American taxpayers are funding his war. Just saying
 @ghg789987  wrong. he definitely isn’t in his prime and so they aren’t very nice to him.
No need to write president in quotes. He is the president no matter how much you can cry about it.
embarrassing , hes immature, his followers are blind being led by lies and / or racism
He also added that Russia respects him as opposed to last presidents and would honor a ceasefire. I believe this considering Biden had dementia his whole term.
Mad respect to Zelensky. He handled that well. His people are dying while Trump is stroking his ego and playing petty politics.
JD lacking competency in handling any intelligent conversation and argument! Total embarrassment for the country...
The guy saying "you're being disrespectful" the entire time, is being disrespectful.
Zekensky did NOT shout.  Stop lying.  DJT and Vance were the psychopaths who were yelling!
Shame doesn’t even begin to describe how I feel to be an American right now.
it's easy to expect someone to "cut a deal" when it's not your country that's being invaded.  to sit there and act like Zelensky is being disrespectful for asking an honest and good question is embarrassing.
From 1:42 to 3:22 I do not understand what Zelensky said that warrants JD or any US diplomat feeling disrespected. Somebody help me understand.
What “shouting match”? I only hear DT and JDV shouting. I have not heard President Zelensky shout once. Looks like headline would be more accurate to say US President and Vice President shout at  President of Ukraine.
I was sad to find out the SNL sketch was basically exactly what happened. Sad, but not surprised.
Isn’t this the fool who said “When I’m president I can end that war in 24 hours.  That war will be over in 24 hours after I’m elected”.
They are smiling while a president's country is being invaded by a world bully. This is scary to watch.
A man without a suit, met a suit without a man.
This might upset some people, but Elon and the DOGE team need to audit every single dollar sent to Ukraine.
It feels disrespectful to invite someone to your turf, your home and then belittle and insult them.  Trump keeps repeating the same point about how Ukraine is nothing without the US
Never argue with a fool because they'll drag you to their level and beat you with experience
a lot of respect for Zelensky. What a stress he has to offer. Deep respect of all the years he care for all the people of his country
This is one of the most embarrassing moments in American history
I bet they would if Putin crossed his arms and rolled his eyes the way Zelensky did. I also bet Putin doesn't act that way though
Nope. They’re going to treat Putin like their best friends and agree to everything Putin is saying.
We haven’t given Putin hundreds of billions of dollars. We have funded this war for Ukraine. The fact that you don’t know the difference is pretty shocking.
And you are another one whose folks haven't been in America all that long.  YOu will never understand.
I hate that they ALWAYS bring up Biden!!!  What are YOU, THOSE CURRENTLY IN OFFICE are DOING??? That's what matters right now
Nope, because they’re a powerful country. We’d rather make peace with them than war. What part don’t you understand?
 @stephaniel1354  Are you serious? Imagine your hometown getting destroyed and the person in front of you said he's gonna refuse to help and consistently supports the person who destroyed your home town. Zelensky is fighting a war, Trump is fighting his ego
Putin is soo different than Zelenskyy, watch him - he never said a word of hate forward any other President, Putin know how to behave, he is diplomat
​ @supdudehowsitgoing Americans act like Ukraines problem will just stay Ukraines problem. Or maybe then it just becomes Europes problem but not US problem.  Americans thought the same of Germany in the 1930s.  It is in United States self interest to prevent expansion of Russia. This is not some novel concept but one, until very recently understood by both Democrats and Republicans. But something very strange happened with this issue in the Republican party in just recent years to make them 180.
trump said exactly why to start it ‘oh do you want me to say terrible things about putin then go to him and be like hi putin can we get a deal’
@ Zelenskyy lost his composure and it’s not appropriate. It’s not good business.
@ not. Zelensky looked composed to me but why don’t you look at Trump and Vance first belittling and antagonizing Zelensky. Hasn’t your mom told you how to treat guests in your own home?
 @Thats_my_opinion_so_chill  and why are you defending Putin again? Do you have a history of defending Putin? Or is it since Trump started opening his mouth?
 @TigerKingpin  We were supposed to help Ukraine, a part of a pact we made when they gave up their nuclear weapons. Even when we weren't helping Ukraine did just fine though.
No one has mentioned the Budapest Memorandum wherein the US, Russia and the UK pursuaded Ukraine to give up their nuclear weapons.  The agreement included Ukraine’s territory/borders be respected.  Well guess what happened.
​ @PilarJacobo-s5h there's a good argument for never laying your weapons down. 😂
 @TigerKingpin  One of the reasons that the USA is helping Ukraine is because of the 1994 Budapest Agreement. Ukraine had the 3rd largest nuclear arsenal then.  The agreement had Ukraine give up their nuclear arsenal in exchange for territorial sovereignty.  Russia agreed to it and guess what happened.
 @PilarJacobo-s5h  “helping Ukraine” can’t mean continuing to fund a proxy war vs Russia with no attempt to end the war.
@ helping can’t mean funding a proxy war vs Russia forever.
​ @RWJ127  exactly, instead what he would do is sign cease fires and then fail to uphold it on his end and take more ground of your country 🤦 much better option
@ So far, the Budapest Agreement and the Minsk Agreements have both been broken by Russia. Unsure what kind of “diplomacy”, negotiations and other agreements should be done.  You are correct to say funding whether by loans or grants should continue indefinitely. Btw, thank you for being respectful in the conversation.
 @TigerKingpin  You're leaving out the part where Russia invaded them. Unless you think dictators should be allowed to run a muck over people, then shut up.   Also they did try end the war. Putin said no and broke agreements left and right.
the diff Putin knows how to handl this level of meeting. this is normal when 2 parts have problems, the key is zelensky doesnt know how to handle this, thats why he lost here.
In terms of the Grand Chess Board, Putin is an equal player on the other side of the board, while Zelly is a pawn, thus the difference in the attitude.
@BiglerSakura  Certainly not intellectually. Putin's advantage merely comes from being in a richer, more powerful nation. You should try to think more analytically
@ Z posing for Vogue magazine during a war his country is involved in is all you need to know about him.
They wish. It's sad how all of them taking a punch on this poor guy. I pray he continues to stand his ground. He asked a valid question. Let them answer his question and stop beating around the bush.
The United States is in the business of fostering democratic nations in it's own interest.  For the U.S to hamper Russian military capabilities for such a low cost without use of it's own soldiers is a no brainer.  People act like this is some charity while ignoring all of geopolitics and history. This was is not occurring in some vacuum where each party is equivalent.  Russia is an authoritarian dictatorship and long time that to United States. U.S supports Ukraine for same reason it supports Israel, it benefits the U.S. However, the U.S now has a President that is acting in self interest which is creating great uncertainty about future for all​ @TigerKingpin 
@ so what is your suggestion on how to handle this?
 @TigerKingpin  Putin, not Puten. The fact that you don’t know the difference is pretty shocking 😉
​@jonnyb.animationstutorials7119 good deal, that means they have nothing to worry about when we stop helping. Maybe send some of that money to help rebuild Hawaii, Asheville, or the Palisades instead of sending it to someone that doesn't need it like Ukraine.
This administration is the worst we've ever had. Such a disaster. God help us.
I would focus my energy at the same place where I put my money... hope you get the point !
@ Sure. Use your analytic capacity to compare the intellectual levels of Putin and Zelensky.
 @JusticeForAll_4All because Putin is right. NATO attacked serbia for no reason so they would attack Russia for no reason as well
​ @RWJ127 As Zelenskey states, he was not allowed to talk. He tried to answer questions and he couldn't. Should we not be concerned that he is great friends with Putin, Kim Jung Un and treats them a lot better than he treated Zelenskey? From your response I assume your in favor of sending children to GUANTANAMO because they came to this country to study and find a new life because they suffered in theirs just trying to get a meal. I assume your in favor of the tarifs thinking that it will benefit the U.S.A. not even realizing that it comes out of the U.S peoples wallets. Who pays more for everything that comes from China? Not the Government. The people.
 @TylerP9999  no but US is afraid of them.. i wonder why.
 @TigerKingpin USA has given Israel $160 billion since 1948. They would never talk that way with Netanyahu. Trump and Vance can disagree with Zelensky and not provide any more aid to Ukraine but they don’t need to berate him like a child. That’s the disrespectful part.
The fact that you're riding heavily on Trump's pole is shocking too but hey it is what it is​ @TigerKingpin 
 @camthegreat5940  I didn’t even mention Trump in my response. The fact that you call that ridingTrump’s pole, just showcases your obsession with Trump.  I would say that shocking, but it’s not really shocking anymore from you bozos.
putin isnt in that position u goofball putin actually plays his cards right which therefore trump gives him respect and gets it back because they both know how that game works
Zandte216 please name ne 1 way in which ANY western nation, NOt just the US has " supported" putin/ Russia through all this?
 @RWJ127  awww, did he hurt your feelings with his crossed arms? I swear you boomers are the biggest snowflakes. I bet you are the type to scream at your wife and kids.
STAGED and fake. Zalenskyy is an actor and NONE OF THAT WAS AUTHENTIC  Back to the WWE days again for Donald😂
 @TigerKingpin The GDP of Ukrainian is under 200 billion… the GDP of Russia is over 2 trillion. For context… the difference between 1 billion and 1 trillion in time: if 1 billion is 11 days… 1 trillion would be 31 years.  And the US signed a pact with NATO to help countries like Ukraine.  And before you go and slam the pact please understand that this military alliance was formed during the Cold War when Russia was threatening to invade Europe and threatened the US with nuke’s.  We are simply holding up our end of the deal.
@ and have we not helped Ukraine?  And is it not helping Ukraine to try to broker a peace deal?
 @Purpose4designs they bring it up to make a point that there are no free handouts anymore like the last administration as they should.
 @TigerKingpin the fact that you do not know the differerence between an aggressor who started war against a neighbouring country and a country who tries to defend its citizens is more shocking to me.
@ who ever said I didn’t know that difference?  It’s shocking that you randomly came up with that straw man conclusion.
Nah man trumps pant will be yellower than hai hair in front of Putin
USA should not be supporting Ukraine while americans are suffering. Let the rest of Europe handle that. If you want to show support then go to Ukraine and join their militray.
⁠ @zachct4536 Then the USA should not support Israel at all as well if they want to let them leave and join the Israel army
 @kingmaestro1766 Ukraine isn’t in NATO. While Israel is a huge contributor to NATO. If anything we owe it to Israel to defend them, not ukraine
They can die on their own dime, why do we have to keep paying ? This has gone on too long, why does he want to keep it going ?
Neither are. Both use us. Ukraine is just much more primitive. Zelenskyy’s Ukraine is an immediate threat to world peace. Russia in partnership with the USA could help solve both challenges.
Exactly. But if you're 'Murricans,well, golly gee,you vote for em 🤤
Zelensky is a bully who needs to be stood up to
Is he a bully or is a he a strong leader? Sometimes you have to step on toes.
 @tnolton2497  This meeting was like watching a scene from Mean Girls. Donald Trump previously met with Vladimir Putin, the longtime dictator of the Russian republic. These two men jointly worked out the terms of the ceasefire deal for a war between Ukraine and Russia without the presence of Ukrainian leadership, a war that Russia started by invading Ukraine. He then summoned the democratically elected leader of a fledgling Eastern European democracy, Ukraine, to the White House, for talks. The Trump administration then refused to negotiate or even disclose the terms of Putin’s ceasefire deal. As the elected leader of Ukraine, Zelensky insisted on knowing the precise terms of the cease-fire, and he insisted on assurances in case Russia does not honor this ceasefire, a tactic of Vladimir Putin often applies. Then the President of the United States started screaming like an adolescent girl when he didn’t get his way. It honestly seemed like a set-up to me. Disgraceful and embarrassing.  Presidents Eisenhower through Reagan are no longer rolling over in their graves. They are doing calisthenics in there. I’m an old guy and never thought I would live to see this day.
Why is he a bully? Because he’s not a geriatric pushover?
 @WilliamTell-d7n you nailed it. I cannot believe how many ppl are attributing the bs to Zelenskyy, but then I guess more than half the ppl posting are GOP and still drinking the koolaid and believing the “alternative” facts.
yes Zelinski is a weasel I would say is a bully maybe yes, a disguise one but he is definitely a weasel and very manipulative, he pretends to be a victim and manipulates everybody with that card. this type of people is very hard to recognize unless you have gone through experience with people like him
So naive, every leader is a bully in certain situations or they would be able to lead a country
I couldn't tell if it was a debate or the worst sales pitch of all time.
⁠​⁠ @Watermelon_Man92 what are you talking about? zelenskyy had a different view what can you do about that.
 @jacksonyork7079  :  Different views had nothing to do with the entire event.  It was like Trump was there for a completely different reason than Zelensky.  Zelensky seemed like he was taking part in a talk show about recent history between Ukraine and Russia.  Meanwhile Trump was acting like Zelensky was somehow being rude and he (along with Vance) somehow managed to bring Joe Biden and Hunter's laptop into the discussion.  There was absolutely no progress with regard to the war.  They could have got drunk and had this unintelligent conversation all night.
 @CorporateStatesofAmerica  Trump didn’t side with his own US intelligence over Putin. There was literally no reason to think he wouldn’t be 100% on Putin’s side.
 @nikkidotts1279 believe it it’s reality.  Russia started from Kiev! The matter of fact Kiev- was the capital of Russia.
​ @Watermelon_Man92 You forgot to add this "meeting" was 2 against 1. They fed off each other and thought Zelensky would back down and he didn't. That man is braver and smarter than I thought. 🇺🇦
@  i’m not trying to start a little political debate but zelenskyy had the audacity to say nobody helped ukraine during the war when we have Americans that voluntarily went over there in ukraine fighting in war and the US have sent 60+ BILLION dollars to them to support them. That’s why trump and vance were upset. Also you have no idea what you’re talking about. Trump talked about biden AND obama because they weren’t trusted by putin and the whole point of the conversation was to make a deal and Zelenskyy wanted to continue the war while trump wanted to settle it right then and there… All Zelenskyy had to do was agree to war peace but he didn’t. SO yes different views had something to do with it.
​@WilliamTell-d7n  yes it was...do your research.... way before our time.
@ You are incorrect. “Russian” lands were consolidated in the 13th century under the grand Duchy of Moscow (later called the grand principality of Moscow) which led to the founding of the Tsardom of Russia in 1547. With Moscow as its capital, this country would become what is now commonly known as Russia. Prior to this period, there was a confederation of states called Kievan Rus that emerged in the 9th century, with Kiev as its capital. Kiev was NEVER the capital of Russia.
⁠ @jacksonyork7079 he agreed to peace and asked how the US was going to enforce the ceasefire because Putin has consistently broken ceasefire agreements. He literally said he wants the war to end, did you watch the video? What exact words did Z use that made you think he doesn’t want peace?
​ @ElenaMaximova-kg5ck  America was a British colony.    Austria was a part of Germany.  What about the rest of the Soviet bloc after the fall of the USSR?
 @cttiger09  so then why didn’t they make the deal.. tell me.
@ also clearly says in the video that zelenskyy doesn’t want peace if America was involved so trump didn’t agree with that because trump wanted peace at that moment. so if zelenskyy agreed to peace tell me how there was no sign off.
 @jacksonyork7079  because Trump there was no security guarantee, z asked what would happen if Putin ignored it like he’s done before and that’s when things went off the rails
@ yes ofc he wants the war to end😂 he’s losing the war. but if he had america as he stated he said he wouldn’t end the war and he would continue. but I do see you didn’t watch/understand the meeting.
 @jacksonyork7079  what were Zs exact words that make you think that? Cause I heard nothing of the sort.
I’m speechless too! How dare Zelenskyy disrespect the United States 🇺🇸 like that
What about the land he bought for himself with that 350 billion we sent him lol
I can trump being a man that’s what a man does put another man who is proud to be arrogant in his arrogance of stupidity in his place respectfully trump is transparent and strait up nobody is perfect but I respect the manhood & openness
As a German thank you Trump !!!! Stop this korrupt country Ukraine
This sounds like a bar convo gone wrong. Except for he fact that it will affect the entire world 🤯
​@jacksonyork7079 the terms of any peace treaty are everything. This stuff isn't as simple as 'peace good war bad'. If you cede the land to Russia they'll do it again. Add a rider to allow Ukraine to pursue NATO membership. Getting them in NATO is everything
 @Watermelon_Man92  It's incumbent of the viewer to have a proper perspective of the interview, history, and relationship.  Why do people assume that this is the sole clip?  WSJ cut this video exactly how they wanted to in order to get the reaction they wanted.  How are people still falling for this?  Zelensky has thousands of interviews on the internet.  He is NOT a diplomat, he's no a historian, he's not a military strategist.  He is interested in a continuation of unaccounted-for funds going towards Ukraine.  On top of that, what annoys me the most is the absolute ignorance among people that Russia is somehow solely to blame for this conflict.  Perhaps the US shouldn't be (regime changing) Ukraine in the first place since 2014.
@vladimirofsvalbard9477  :  If there's more to the video than this, I'd like to know where it is.  Even if that be the case it doesn't change what was said nor the approach.  And I don't see how anyone besides Russia is to blame.  They fired missiles into Ukraine's capital city.  U.S. forces said they would, which Russia denied, and then Russia started firing missiles.
 @ElenaMaximova-kg5ck  No, Kyiv was never the capital of Russia. Kyiv was founded in the 6th or 7th century and was the capital of Kievan Rus (first East Slavic state) from the time of Viking Oleg's seizure until 1169. "Russia" did not even exist as a country back then, so it's not accurate to say that Kiev was ever the capital of Russia. However, if we go by your way of thinking, then the United States should give all the land back that we stole from the First Peoples. They were here first, they had thousands of years of civilization before Europeans showed up. North and South America was inhabited by First Peoples about 10,000 years ago until 1542. Since they definitely lived here long before European immigrants came, uninvited, I think if anyone should have rights to claim a country as their own, it's the Native Americans. It was their land for 10,000 years, at least.
They invited the leader of another country to the White House. Even though Vance and Trump don’t agree with Zelensky they don’t need to berate him like a child.
​ @Bk6346 I'm not here to pick sides. I'm a believer in Jesus Christ and I follow Him and His word. I'm happy to admit many of the mistakes of Trump. But Zelensky was acting like an adolescent. When you act like a child you get treated like a child. He did not exercise humility, or even wisdom in understanding that he is in need of help, so at least use shrewdness and discretion.
 @gillettecaleb9 I think you may be confused about what will happen if any leeway is given to T or Putin. Zelenskyy was one of the few adults in the room and showed great humility in keeping his temper while others raised their voices like children throwing a tantrum. Just my opinion, of course. And Norway’s…
 @gillettecaleb9  you say you don’t pick sides and then you PICKED A SIDE. You are ignorant and gullible.  For the record, your storybook fable does not exist. Troglodyte.
 @gillettecaleb9  how? he very clearly stated that diplomacy has not worked
 @Bk6346  The dude is basically telling US you don;t know what you are doing. That is disrespect
maybe watch the whole 50 minutes instead of the snippets to actually see how disrespectful zelensky actually is.
The full version is AHHH-WAAAAAAAAAAAAAY worse look for tRump and Vamce
I didn't hear anybody shouting or yelling. Maybe you're the psychopath. 🤔
they were scared, they would get embarrassed Infront of their own media, that's why trump didn't let Zelensky speak
 @hopelesshillbilly Trump and Vance were obviously angry and raising their voices. Zelensky was only trying to have a reasonable conversation.
z needs to understand they recognize a grifter when they c one
 @hopelesshillbilly they we’re raising their voices and talking over him? Did you not see that?
Ukraine would love to have your boots on the ground and your money.
I still can't comprehend how such country as America could vote for this man...
As it's easy to expect someone to continue giving money when it's not your money
​​ @BrodieSim Um... Zelensky offered Ukraine's resources to the US in exchange for the U.S.'s continued support... and that is his money...  Also... we're a land that believes in freedom from dictators like Putin... unless it's another country's freedom, I guess.  It worked out well for us with Poland in WW2, right?
I don't think it was necessarily something he said differently here.  The Republicans have been complaining for some time about Zelensky's resistance to cutting a deal and what you saw was their frustration finally coming out in public after he continued to talk about his side of the story.
Zelensky did not do anything that warrants JD or any US diplomat to feel disrespected.
I believe they are mad that Zelensky acts like we as a country owe Ukraine something.
 @Treebark4Dinner yes he did. I guess it’s a beta thing for you. Its entire demeanor showed upset, attitude, & lack of gratitude. When he is in US he needs to cooperate. He was talking like he is used to with Biden. JD caught his disrespect and attempt of entitlement, and called him out on speaking on matters that are normally discussed behind cameras. If you don’t see disrespect in that then you’re not built for leadership.
Zelensky questioned the effectiveness of America's diplomatic mitigation which is a fair point he did back up with evidence, but considering this conflict is not ours, that we have greatly aided Ukraine, and that the president is making the effort to end this conflict, making the point about America's diplomacy comes off as very ungrateful and therefore disrespectful
@ bingo. Doing and saying that on national live TV as well, that’s like a slap in the face. JD did the right thing.
Zelensky came asking for help but acted entitled. Like a homeless man begging for money but cusses at you if you only gave him some coins you had.
There wasn’t anything. They’re just bullies who get furious anytime anyone disagrees with them, and it’s that simple.
 @donn.4766  I gotchu -"Like a Homeless Man Begging for Change but Curses you for giving him a Sandwich."
 @PWNINSWAGMASTER  nothing to understand. Trump and Vance are just completely being disrespectful
Here we see a tate convert in their natural habitat on youtube comments defending on of his alpha daddys. He must advocate that they did not in-fact have a childish break down and that it was alpha mentality otherwise he may appear weak to people he doesnt know and would never interact with
He threatening America saying we will be hurting if we back out but it’s not our war to fight and they aren’t thankful for the help we gave and the help to end it
 @chief8976 behind cameras?  But didn’t Trump himself say he wanted this conversation in front of the cameras so that the American people can see what’s happening with these negotiations?  Zelenskyy was merely trying to say that diplomacy doesn’t work with Putin.  Not sure why that’s offensive.
He's mad that he is discussing, what they came to discuss publicly so they can't lie about how the conversation went later
Well you start learning English,  not everyone speak American,  sorry it's what it this is
 @claylong  We do owe Ukraine something. We literally signed a treaty in the 90s promising to defend them if they gave up their Soviet nukes.
he wanted to say that this war affects all countries. And despite the fact that America is across the ocean, it will feel it too. And that no one needs it.
 @claylong you mean like, ohidunno, fulfilling our end of a peace deal we helped Ukraine make with Russia before this whole thing started?
Where’s the payback for all the money and equipment we’ve given Zelensky the cokehead?
He did not say anything disrespectful. He asked a question that goes to the crux of the issue, which they did not have an answer to. The accusations of Zelenskyy being disrespectful and ungrateful, and shouting on the US part, is just a technique to distract and change the focus of the conversation.
@ zely didn’t sign a mineral deal, gave us back no money, didn’t commit to peace. So yeah he was totally disrespectful.
 @chief8976 If you have an ego that fragile, that you cant put aside for the sake of diplomacy and understanding then you are not built for leadership. I would argue its more “beta” to have your little ego be hurt by someone feeling some type of way about you disrespecting what they have been fighting for.
 @claylong we actually do. They gave up their nukes on our “assurances “
He said he was alone since the ceasefire when he’d in fact not been alone. He has been given 350 billion dollars, us veterans are volunteering to fight in their war. Then he says if they don’t do what he wants that America is going to feel it in the future. He doesn’t want a ceasefire the first step to an agreement. This seems very disrespectful.
Also kept saying what are you taking about to JD Vance. I’m not supporters or voted for them but he was disrespectful
​ @chief8976 normally discussed behind cameras? Dude they were literally there to have that exact conversation. This meeting was to speak about how things can be resolved not some arbitrary conversation about nothing. 🤦🏾‍♂️
Trump didn't like what Zelensky said about America feeling things in the future. It came off as a threat, and then Trump started threatening him.
​@claylong we are (were?) allies. so it isn't that they're "owed" its that we told them we'd help them.
​@donn.4766 can you provide receipts? I watched the whole video. not once did he DO any of what you said
 @claylong  Yes, you are. Budapest memorandum in 1994 is when Ukraine gave up all nuclear weapon in the exchange of security guarantees from the United States. This is what Zelenskyy tried to convey there by asking Trump about the security guarantees while he was yelling at him.
 @claylong what was the reason the US gave $350b in the first place then? it must be something… and now it is fixed I think
STAGED and fake. Zalenskyy is an actor and NONE OF THAT WAS AUTHENTIC  Back to the WWE days again for Donald😂
 @donn.4766  "Like a homeless man begging for money but cusses at you for trying to *LET HIS BELIGERANT INVADING NEIGHBOR STEAL 10% OF HIS COUNTRY & IN EXCHANGE FOR TRILLIONS OF RAW RESOURCES...*" You people are so clueless it's bewildering.
@ did that word offend you? If so you can let me know it did and I’ll apologize even though it wasn’t even directed to you. If it didn’t offend you then I don’t see the reason in your comment. But I do understand a lot of men are sensitive nowadays. So maybe I can help carry your sensitivity and apologize????
​@seanhidalgo4901 i think they misinterpreted what he was saying. He wasn't questioning the US's ability to be diplomatic, he was raising the point that Russia isn't trustworthy and even if we come to a diplomatic agreement with them, what do we do if Russia reneges on it?
 @chief8976 Wooooooow, hambone is pulling out ‘beta’ like it’s an actual insult.
Trump and Vance misunderstood Zelenskiy's words as indirect insults (typical bully mentality) aimed at the US, and it all went downhill from there.
​ @noahnaslund8313  i dont think that was a ment as a threat at all, more a warning based on what happened during ww2. Even before the us entered the war, we felt the effects of shortages and rationing and hard economic times because of a war in europe. He was saying that if the war continues we will feel the hurt and effects indirectly, and possibly directly, as if Russia gains control over Ukraine, whats to stop them from going further and invading more countries? Like germany invading Poland?
 @chief8976  Hmm, so you want them to discuss Putin's dictatorship in private? Instead of transparently? "small government", "freedom of speech", they said.  I am sorry that JD Vance couldn't answer the question, and because he couldn't, he started an ad hominem attack.
Physically, the Ukrainians were fighting alone with US equipment. We could debate to what extent Ukraine was not alone, but there is nothing disrespectful about saying 2+2= 4. Biden + Obama never threatened the Russia with military force over Ukraine despite the Budapest Memorandum. Zelensky could have done many things better with Trump, but in the eyes of everyone outside the MAGA crowd, Trump looked immature and ignorant regarding who started the war, how much money Ukraine actually owes the US, and how well Putin can be trusted. If saying "I don't trust Putin' is disrepectful to Trump, please add me to the list
 @hqqq9792  If you want to talk about disprespectful, do you think this qualifies as disrespectful? "You/Ukraine shouldn't have started this war?"
Also, let’s call this what it actually is - harassment. Trump and JD are harassing Zelensky. This is exactly what harassment looks like.
 @lctv  thank God your the minority everybody else seen it differently maybe your hatred for this guy is blinding you or you are just anti everything good
 @tewst2  You'd be wrong. You have to blind not to see how Vance and Trump were acting like bullies in a sandbox. "How dare you argue with us! These are our Hot-wheels! If you want to play, you do what WE say or, get out!"
I wouldn’t necessarily call it “shouting” if you pay attention to the actual conversation Zelenskyy wouldn’t let them talk without talking himself. So that “shouting” was trump and Vance trying to talk over Zelenskyy
No he just took billions of our dollars, bought 10 mansions and 20 yachts all the while acting like a spoiled brat. I personally thought Trump and JD were too nice!!
Its obviously that zelensky is asking fo guarantees in this situation. I dont think he wasnt respectful
Like parents sitting their child down and having "a talk". 😂
 @גלעדשוורצמן  Yes, As he should! Trump even admits that Putin has gone back on his “agreements”.
 @missmya3972  yeah sure thing... John Smithovich from Ohio Oblast 😂 it's always the troll farm accounts with numbers at the end
It's a tough situation. Ukraine is losing a war with the second world superpower, who is also our longest enemy. We gave them billions of dollars, billions of dollars in equipment, and people from all over the planet have traveled to Ukraine to fight. A peace treaty is the only outcome that ends well for anyone
Zelensky started it by spreading his propaganda instead of concentrating on the peace and minerals deals.
 @Trumpwon47-AJ  You've got that backwards. JDV barrated him to the point he had to answer ALL the questions at once and even stated "that's a lot to cover, let me start at the beginning" and then TRUMP interrupted him and started talking over HIM. So maybe go back and rewatch the exchanges and pay attention to who steps on whom??
it doesnt matter, its about business, yes, the international affairs and politics are much like mathematics, there is nothing personal in that, no matter the ways..
He tried to shout, but got cut off. He was wrong and so was trump. Period. Saying otherwise would be ignorant
What would he shout about? He's been handed hundreds of billions of dollars.  Acts like he is owed it.
Yup That's Him 🤣   Anything He Promises Is A Lie
He meant he could end the war by giving Putin all of Ukraine territory 😂
he even said "If I'm elected President, the wars will be over before I get into office"
@ Actually, reporters have asked him to clarify before like “So that’s a figure of speech and you mean fast.  How fast?  Surely not…” and he cuts them off and says “It’s not a figure of speech.  24 hrs.  It’s the farthest thing from a figure of speech there could ever be”.
Its not our fight till a deal is made. Money for the mineral deal. That is the art of negotiation. We are no longer giving cash for nothing. I support Trump putting America first.
 @Gromitz101 i agree it sucks Ukraine has to go through this but the ceasfire was broken by Ukraine and we shouldn't have helped them after they showed that to us
 @Gromitz101 the art of negotiation? This was the most pathetic, embarrassing thing an American President has ever done. Answer me this…why did the U.S. supply the UK before we were officially at war in WWII?
​​​ @cbo9090 That's because they had the Lend-Lease Act. They didn't just give them weapons, ammunition and supplies for free. It was a deal made that allowed them to give them the supplies they needed without getting involved in the war and without payment up front. And there was a repayment plan. It gave the US long-term leases to military bases around the world and monetary repayment in the future. We had given Ukraine billions of dollars without an agreement with repayment in sight. Trump was trying to fix a bad deal that Biden made with Zelenskyy. Basically giving them billions of dollars for free. That would come out of tax layers pockets. Trump simply wanted that money back so you and I don't have to pay for it. Assuming you're a US citizen.
 @RejectedManiac  That’s how they supplied them, not why. So why did they supply the UK?
You kinda just described American foreign policy in general. One man's insurgent is another's patriot.. that's something I learned during my time in the military
The world bully is his best mate. That's why he thinks it's so funny.
It's all a game. He said the "wrong" things, and therefore his country will suffer for now and that's OK with them.
@ You know what Israel has that Ukraine doesn't? A leader that shows appreciation for the help we put forth.
@ 2015-16 donbas luhansk cease fire they broke it with mortar fire
You don't have a suit nor are you a man because you're a bot. Beep Bop Boop! 😂
Underrated comment. It’s kind of funny that they’re calling you a bot when you criticize our Russian “bot” of a president.
Why because he called out zalenski? We gave him 350 billion dollars and we got nothing in return, screw him I'm glad Trump called him out
 @bills.1390  Indeed… We ALL lost the election to a Russian “bot”. Remember?
Zelensky isn't a man and don't have suit on top of that.
 @krinkle7695  we did not give him 350 billion dollars, we gave him a third of that. 350 billion is another Trump lie that you have repeated without thinking like the parrot you are.
Well said. Absolutely true! There were only empty suits, without any humanity, courage or morals.
In Village those who could not pass elementary school exam put on suits frequently coz they also want to look great like educated ones.
Come on,  what does have to do with anything. Dumbest comment ever.
The whole World must repeat that. Loud. Because its just right. No matter how you feel about that fact or if you realize that.  Selenzky is there because he know it. But try to tell he don't need help at the same time. Since 3 years...
 @Cyril_Sneer he never said he didn’t need the help . He was saying how is this going to be different than the other times they’ve signed an agreement??! Putin needs to be stopped
maybe if you watch the whole 50 minutes you'll see how disrespectful Zelensky actually been the whole time.
​@felrinlavion5146  post the 50 minute footage so we all can see🤷🏿‍♂️
Why do all of you keep backing and want to escalate the war?
To many who replied defending Trump, I actually did listen to the whole thing. In fact I do agree with a few points made by Trump, very rational indeed. what’s disrespectful is to silence him and bully him in front of media and not let him speak.
And Zelensky didn't. I think he handled this much better than the other two.
 @BenjaminIMeszaros  no I’m not blind. I’m dead. I’m just not a hater that’s all.
 @mariaco8854 that is the most tired remark. You can’t actually speak to the content you can only call people haters for their opinions and observations. Tired tired tired
Out of how many tho ? Cause you can say that about a lot moments in the last 10 years :/
 @BenjaminIMeszaros  that was funny lol L O LL O LL O L
No, the third. The most embarrassing was 2016, and the 2nd was 2024.
I don't think so. Being real is much better than creating scams.
This is embarrassing for conservatives but it's not even top 10.
Embarrassing is giving money away to other countries while American highways are falling apart. Embarrassing is letting Millions of people get into the country illegally and give money to them while many US citizens can not afford to pay rent. In my opinión
And his term just started. We will see plenty worse in the next four years.
Hmmm no I'd say having Biden for a president for four years tops this one actually. the fact people have been quiet about this until trump got elected just shows your hate for one guy is stronger than your love for this country. too bad so sad :( that being said this was hard to watch but most embarrassing? give me a break, open your eyes for a change
 @jaimegutierrez5520 yea, you’re right. The US has plenty of things to improve domestically. So far, his domestic policies have mainly hurt the people in most need. I know he limited Medicaid. I know he took away a lot of programs that gave lunches to school kids for free. I know he’s looking to get rid of the department of education, one of the places where US kids are significantly behind compared to the rest of the world. So no, his focus hasn’t been on the citizens struggling. And I’m saying this as a Republican.
The most embarrassing is when Biden called Zelensky in his presence - Putin.
Talking to him like a child..."you're not being thankful", "did you say 'thank you'?" 🤮
This was Hard to watch...I felt Embarrassed for the Ukrainian President. This was Brutal.
Berating a man for trying to defend his people against a land-hungry dictator while also trying to appease Putin by giving him everything he wants for 'peace' makes that bust of Churchill in the background incredibly ironic.
"What if Russia breaks cease fire" - Exactly. This is where I feel for Zelensky.
How can they, Trump and Vance, talk about diplomacy when they can't have a respectful discussion.
As an American, I am so embarrassed by the way that trump & robin represented the USA
This is disgusting. Can’t believe these are our leaders. Makes me sick.
Honestly they handled this very poorly. And they should be more respectful to him and let him talk.
I'm a Trump supporter but I do not support this! Vance should be ashamed of himself! There was no reason for Vance to attack Zelensky. I watched the full 55 minute meeting and Zelensky said “thank-you” three times! What does Vance want? Zelensky deserves respect too; both Trump and Vance treated Zelensky as if he were trash. They may not like Zelensky and that's fine but he is still the leader of a country and a guest at the White House, the US does not treat guests like this!
And yet, you called President Zalensky a dictator.  Trump never says anything negative about Putin.
In summary: Trump saying how great he is and how terrible every other president is every 10 seconds meanwhile the president of a war-torn country where millions of people have died sits there and gets told about how bad the war is in his own country as if he doesn't already know
Whats crazy is Zelensky is talking to them like he’s gentle parenting them
Omg how was zelensky being disrespectful the dude simply said you'll feel the influence, interrupted him, jumped down his throat, I'm pretty sure he was going to say you'll feel the influence of Russia if Ukraine falls
This is like watching two mobsters threaten some poor small business owner in the hood.
Shouldn't they've had a private discussion before going in front of the media? It looks like there wasn't  any, just Trump telling Ukraine they have no choice but to do what the U.S wants.
They really brought him over to bully him what a sad state of affairs the US is in
What a circus. JD and Trump flexing like unintelligent bullies rather than trying to solve problems.
yup IM SO GLAD I VOTED FOR THIS. ​ @cornchiphero   EVEN BETTER SEEING COMMENTS LIKE YOURS
 @tristenc.7771  lol Economy, still blaming Trump right before he left office 4 years after Trump left.
At least they didn’t have him put hisheels back on and dance?🤷
But did he say thank you tho? He dosent listen he just keeps refusing to hear any options but his own
 @squeallymaniac  you understand geopolitics the same way I understand macromolecualar biochemistry.... Im a lawyer.
Let's provide some context.....there's something called diplomacy. One of the basics is you don't talk to another country's leader like they are a small child and you are their parent because it is insulting and offensive and doesn't accomplish anything.  So, even if you don't like the leader and consider them to be an adversary, you still need to show some basic manners and follow the structure of diplomacy. If you don't, you just look ignorant and incapable. Any disagreements need to be expressed behind closed doors and in a professional manner. Trump and Vance are permanently clueless to this process.
 @Wodyy-y8g  Not Vance or Trumps place to say that to him or to any  other country's leader.
@ - what does Zelenskyy gain through this entitled, self-righteous attitude?  what does the US lose by Trump pushing back on him?
 @Brandonv0713 The US forced Ukraine to give up its weapons in 1994 with the promise the US would defend it. Thanks for putting your ignorance on display 😂
I agree. I’m listening into this as an independent. Not taking any sides. It was not helpful when J.D. Vance intruded and talked to Zelenskyy that way. That’s not the way to be diplomatic. It certainly will hamper any negotiations. Case in point, the mineral deal fell through. I heard Trump was actually in a good mood before meeting Zelenskyy. I think Vance stoke a fire and poke the bear.  When tempers have calmed down, I pray there will be more diplomatic talks or else there will be no peace. I understand that this is especially hard for Zelenskyy. A peace deal means concessions for both sides. I don’t think Zelenskyy will get back Crimea and maybe other properties from Russia.
 @Bluevelvet7  - all the US has to lose is money… Zelenskyy could lose his entire country, the lives of his citizens, even his own life… and he gets offended by Vance’s suggestion we return to diplomacy, rather than chest thumping?
 @Wodyy-y8g  if you watch from the beginning he spent the first 5 mins talking about how grateful he was to the United States so yes, he did say thank you, in that very conversation.
 @Sam_T2000  He’s saying diplomacy hasn’t worked. 🤦🏻‍♀️ Why is this so hard to understand? It’s like history is repeating itself and no one even notices. We tried diplomacy with Hitler and that went swimmingly. Why do we think it will be any better with Putin?
 @MMECorbett  Oh hey! Trump and Vance don't just look ignorant and incapable, they truly are an embarrassment to all Americans.
​ @Brandonv0713 and the 101st airborne should thank Patton for 'saving' them during the battle of the bulge. Spoiler: none of them did.
​ @Brandonv0713 that doesn't mean they have to bully him in front of the American Media about the situation. The whole point of us providing foreign aid to other countries is that it's within our duty as a country to do so it's been that way for a very long time. Trump and Vance are acting like 8 year olds here in a lunchroom trying to get a reaction out of Zelensky, and he didn't fall for it he stayed calm and maintained composure.
​ @Bluevelvet7 what concessions will Russia make?   People keep asking this question, but I haven't heard an answer yet.
​ @rogueelitecs1229  It's not our duty. At all. Our only duty is to ourselves.
The point they are trying to make is that he is being ungrateful, demanding instead of asking, criticising instead of praising.  He should have played the game better and chosen his words better.  You get more bees with honey.
We gave him hundreds of billions of dollars.  He should be thankful.  That was not unreasonable to expect.
​@Wodyy-y8g Zelensky spoke in front of the Senate and US media, and thanked the American people from the bottom of his heart.
​ @MMECorbett ummm u got it backwards...we don't owe them anything so we can talk how we want. They need our help. We don't need theirs. And they've received hundreds of billions.
​ @oldengguy There is a standing agreement, Budapest Memorandum, that has the US supporting Ukraine as a sovereign nation and against aggression.  Money was a better pill for the US to swallow that troops on the ground.  Ukraine gave up 1900+ nuclear warheads.
@jasonjohnson3424  I mean, do we not spend more on military than any other country in the world for a reason? We don't just stockpile weapons, we use those weapons to help allies on a regular basis throughout history. WWI, WWII, etc. If we are gonna spend this much money on the military, we might as well use that money protecting our allies in NATO
 @MrNote-lz7lh  I mean, do we not spend more on military than any other country in the world for a reason? We don't just stockpile weapons, we use those weapons to help allies on a regular basis throughout history. WWI, WWII, etc. If we are gonna spend this much money on the military, we might as well use that money protecting our allies in NATO
 @MMECorbett  It wasn't our place to stick our noses into wars that aren't ours to fight. When we choose to, at our taxpayers expense (hundreds of billions) then yes, a "thank you" is in order.
He has millions in taxpayer money. Every time you go to a store and pay for something remember all the freebies these people have on our backs. Thank you is the least they could say
 @ryanward8039  Unfortunately your post  ignores reality. The world is not that simple. The only reason we haven't been invaded by Russia is because we don't happen to share a border with them. The last time the US ignored a European  war, , we ended up with mass genocide & WWII. Those who  fail to learn from history are bound to make the same mistakes. Zelensky had already thanked them multiple times but regardless, there was no justification for Vance & Trump to ignore protocol & speak to him  like a child.
 @jasonjohnson3424  Don't know who you are refferring to by "we" but interaction between heads of state is  conducted by something called "protocol" because if you ignore protocol, you end up with this... a screaming match,  AKA a mess.
@ Ever hear the expression "burning bridges" ? From Europe's reaction to this fiasco, we've already lost.
 @Brandonv0713  His country would not be at war without your help! You encouraged this war and told Ukraine you would help! Be responsible for your country’s leaders’ words and actions!
This saying “you’re not being thankful enough” is the biggest red flag for real sociopaths and narcissists
Because Z was acting like a child, therefore he gets treated like one.  He's a little spoiled brat.
STAGED and fake. Zalenskyy is an actor and NONE OF THAT WAS AUTHENTIC  Back to the WWE days again for Donald😂
They will cry when the world get enough, no one like bullies
if you gave a homeless a taco, and he says I don't like mexican, what would you say?????
I wonder if they would ever speak to Netanyahu this way.
And because they perceive him as ungrateful, his countrymen will continue to suffer. They just want the mineral rights without confirming there will be provided security.
Bullshyt. As an American I don’t want American money going to Ukraine.
​ @HotSauce-mn1mp  better fund that billions dollars tax cut for the riches right?
@ tax cut and outright giving billions of money is no way the same fkn thing. At least these tax cut are for billionaires that ummmm provide jobs
​ @HotSauce-mn1mp  They don't need to be billionairs to provide jobs. In the 1940s under FDR u americans had the highest tax rate about 97% for the super wealthy, predominantly to found the war machine. It didn't harm the US economy at all, even the opposite, it resulted in the the prosperity in the post war era. You should consider your own history, and try not to be mislead by your corrupted politicians and oligarchs.
Why is he a "land-hungry dictator"? Russia has enough land; it's not Rwanda. He doesn't need resources; Russia has enough of those. You people always avoid reality - he is there because of Banderites...
Some people should only open their mouths when they go to a dentist. You're one of them.
 @lordbendtner7021  Maybe Trump should too because he looks about 600 pounds here.
 @CatzoFai  Maybe, but it's better than being british or whatever colony you're from, 'Mate'.
 @KIZMET07  Literally has nothing to do with what I said. Does my comment not translate well into Russian?
You send your money! I’m sick of paying for the war
They were mad because Zelenskyy likes to negotiate for aid by fear mongering.
Ukraine is Russia aka Soviet Union half or most of Ukraine speaks Russian we had no business over throwing the government anyway
 @HotSauce-mn1mp  You do know USD is the most circulated currency in the world right? Venezuela is a prime example.
 @Doom-802  what in the absolute fk does that have to do with simply not wanting billions of tax payers money to go to Ukraine?
@ Unless you are standing up for your tax payer money to not be spent on billionaire tax breaks or the 850billion a year we spend on the DOD who has multiple parts of it FAIL AUDITS, the stance that 'I don't want 170 billion to go to Ukraine over five years' is stupid.
Zelenskyy like Trump, it's always only about him. No way he would agree to this meeting otherwise. He wanted maximum attention and this meeting went viral, exactly what he wanted.
He wasn't 'defending his people'. He was continuing an argument they were having in private. That's why he was being disrespectful.
And what exactly can we do about that without causing World War III? Please enlighten me
 @DanDanAndMicah and what if Russia in based the U.S.? Should we capitulate to Russia to avoid WW3? Where are we going to stop being afraid.
Let’s not forget how many times Russia broke agreements with Ukraine in the past
Okay, what if? All-out war? Is that what you want? Try thinking before you say something dumb.
 @31terikennedy  That's what the security guarantees are for. That is exactly what Zelenskey is asking for. France, Germany and other Eu countries have already agreed for security guarantees but the U.S has not. The security guarantees answer the " What if" question but trump possibly has his hands in both pies and does not want to provide such guarantees.
Well that question alone means he should kick rocks. Its better to go with the flow than to tire yourself out fighting the current and see where ya land. Guy has a choice to try. He’s too shook and has no faith. Strong leaders have faith
​ @DanDanAndMicah in order to prevent that, ukraine and america would have to adhere to putins wishes, namely for ukraine to have neutral relations with NATO and America. One way trump could achieve that is by not organising mineral deals with ukraine! Do you not see the paradox of what trump and Vance are saying?
They want to sacrifice Ukraine to the grinder while trying to rob them. Poor Ukraine
​ @tjsullivan1936 faith? You don't make decisions for a country based on faith. You based in on solid facts.
​ @btay6260 you cannot make decisions for a country based on "trust me bro". That's not how it works.
At least they get another four years of protection, time to recover, and prep time if they agree to the deal. It can potentially change how this story unfolds.
 @Starman062 ​​⁠​⁠ Do you think Ukraine is part of the United States?   If Russia invaded the US, our response isn’t what would cause WW3. It already started in that case. Very unintelligent comment.
 @truelombax2572  but he can't guarantee those 4 years that's the problem.
 @michaelbarton9565  The way Biden was so fast and loose with money there's no way of knowing.
 @michaelbarton9565 The voters who voted for Trump gave Putin the Presidency for the second time in a decade. That’s worth far more than what we’ve given Ukraine. If you don’t see Trump as a Russian asset by now I’m sorry you’re not paying attention.
 @michaelbarton9565  We didn't give 320 billion dollars to Ukraine either, so what is your point?
​@btay6260 so you want 4 years protection not a life time? Hmm
@ he’s making a decision for OUR country. What do we even have to do with any of this? Just that little guys personal ATM?
Pathetic. Why should Russian fall again for such nonsense like it happened with the Minsk agreements?
 @alexdentondxiw  Russia or the other side? stop spreading nonsense and inform people with the right information. Seems like you forgot about the Minsk agreements too.
Earlier in the meeting, not included in this clip, Trump did say that the security guarantee would be all the American businesses working in Ukraine under the minerals agreement, which would cause Russia to think twice about invading.
 @btay6260 yea, I think that’s what they are all thinking but won’t say.
​ @DanDanAndMicah They need to bring up actual points like that instead of doing what they did
How was Trump and Vance being disrespectful? Zelensky was the one that raise his voice first
Reading the other replies to your comment makes me feel like I'm losing my mind. Trump and Vance interrupted constantly. I'm impressed by Zelensky's ability to stay calm during this, especially given that the fate of his country hangs in the balance and he's talking to two people who could help him but clearly do not care one bit.
Maybe you need to watch the whole press conference and not just the last 10 minutes.  It was respectful and there would have been a deal and then Zelensky started the argument.  He should have just shut up and taken the deal we offered him.  Now I understand his Prime Minister has called for his impeachment.
Not letting you finish a sentence it’s being very disrespectful! Specially coming from two persons at once. That is not diplomacy.  Now that they think talking like that to an other person is not disrespectful go talk to Putin the same way. A lot of people would like to see that.
We need a diplomatic resolution not more fighting. Ukraine can't win this fight, let's stop pretending they can. They are at a stand still  because of our equipment. But Russia is not going to lose this and it will get worse for Ukraine.
​ @ryanralston1466  what was Elon wearing in the oval office two weeks ago? 🤔
He literally came into the White House and blamed the USA for not helping more (300 billion in taxpayer money) and then had the audacity to suggest “we will feel it too”.
 @DoctorAdhesive are u an american ? If so pack ur bags and leave to Ukraine dude
And Trump didn't even hold him back,and say "Look,JD,who's President here? I am. I got this."  Trump can't even do that. How can we expect him to deal with Putin?
You don't walk into someone's home and threaten them with repercussions if they don't agree with you.
 @blakegardner4880 where does this $300 billion come from?  I see $119 in some articles.  Which is correct?
​@PilarJacobo-s5h  Dang Ukraine is that hard up? If they just want $119 I say give it to him.  I don't see what all the hullabaloo is about.  I can give him that.
I believe our country is past a respectful discussion at the tune of $106 billion of the United States taxpayers money for aid in this war.
How can Zelensky with his blinding hate? Vance literally said the last president tried the “beating their chest method and it failed now lets try diplomacy” and zelensky gets all disrespectful as if it wasn’t just explained to him that what the Us was doing under the previous admin was NOT DIPLOMACY. Are y’all actually that dense or just choose to take the other side because of mean tweet orange guy?
 @ETAvr  nope uk is a better country and army is better trained
​ @miksjunior  we haven't given anything close to a trillion dollars. Honestly we shouldn't be whining about the amount we gave to Ukraine considering what they are doing for us.
​ @kiddadd  Dude we're still waiting for you to complete your sentence. What did Ukraine do for "us"? I'm curious.
​@kiddadd I'm a former defense analyst who specialized in Eastern Europe. Ukraine has done nothing for the United States unless you believe Russia wants to invade the rest of Europe and Ukraine is the bulwark. Russia lacks the capacity to do that but anyways the war in Ukraine is hopeless militarily for the Ukrainians to push the Russians back.
@kiddadd  we are told what the US has given. Rule of thumb... tripple it.. probably closer to the mark
Ukraine has been a boon for our military industrial complex…billions in investments to replace antiquated hardware like the Vietnam era M113’s, cluster munitions, expiring shells, old models of the Bradley’s.
@habitatpdx7518  we've already replaced the Vietnam era stuff a long while ago. I say this as someone who served in the military recently. We don't use M113 anymore outside of maybe 2nd line national guard armories. Really though are military is quite dilapidated especially in the navy and airforce and needs upgrades.
 @jude.niranjan   Why are you waiting for me to tell you. You can find the info easily. Or you can keep pretending to not understand. I don't care.
Same boat. Trump did not do well on this. Very frustrating.
Friends, please wake up and realize that this man you support treats EVERYONE this way. It isn’t ok, and you shouldn’t support it.
I'm glad more Trump voters are seeing through his claims of being peaceful, diplomatic, and good with negotiations, and realizing he and Vance among many others primarily speak and act reactionarily. If they feel insulted, other person is Bad and they get angry. But I do wonder how you can have this level of logic in this video, but not have seen all the prior instances over the last several years in everything he says and does. Regardless, I'm glad you can think for yourself, and hopefully become increasingly disillusioned with the corruption in the Republican (AND Democratic) parties in power.
We’ve been saying this for years. Trump treats everyone this way. Trump lies constantly.
I agree 100%. Zelensky was speaking even-toned, and did not raise his voice, while Trump and JD began shouting and constantly talking "over" someone whose is not speaking his primary language. Very childish and disrespectful from the American side.
 @FreedomCowboy  Let us hope that both Trump & Vance will learn something from this incident.
 @shushmebro3845  I may dislike the way Trump, and most especially Vance, treated Zelensky but this in no way means that I am going to discontinue my support for them! Have you never had someone you like do something that upset you? Most humans tend to move past the incident without turning into a wild animal and consuming the young of the offender. I met Trump in 2009, he was very kind and gracious, we had a conversation over a business model; I can honestly say his demeanor was impeccable! I have nothing negative to say about him, but I would like to know what set Vance off to begin with. I hope both Trump and Vance will learn something from this incident.
 @HyperfixationStation  I may dislike the way Trump, and most especially Vance, treated Zelensky but this in no way means that I am going to discontinue my support for them! Have you never had someone you like do something that upset you? Most humans tend to move past the incident without turning into a wild animal and consuming the young of the offender. I met Trump in 2009, he was very kind and gracious, we had a conversation over a business model; I can honestly say his demeanor was impeccable! I have nothing negative to say about him, but I would like to know what set Vance off to begin with. I hope both Trump and Vance will learn something from this incident.
 @HyperfixationStation  I may dislike the way Trump, and most especially Vance, treated Zelensky but this in no way means that I am going to discontinue my support for them! Have you never had someone you like do something that upset you? Most humans tend to move past the incident without turning into a wild animal and consuming the young of the offender. I met Trump in 2009, he was very kind and gracious, we had a conversation over a business model; I can honestly say his demeanor was impeccable! I have nothing negative to say about him, but I would like to know what set Vance off to begin with. I hope both Trump and Vance will learn something from this incident.
 @shushmebro3845  That isn't true. I met Trump in 2009, he was very kind and gracious, we had a conversation over a business model; I can honestly say his demeanor was impeccable! I have nothing negative to say about him, but I would like to know what set Vance off to begin with. I hope both Trump and Vance will learn something from this incident.
​ @emeraldsea2718 The best way to know a person's character is to see how he treats his enemies.  You spoke to him about business...of course he's going to be nice to you...that's easy. What's hard is when you disagree with someone....that's when their true personality comes out.
 @AndrewPRoberts  And that he's weak without the U.S and he should shut up and be grateful we helped in the first place. Oh yeah, and that he's disrespectful for wanting to know what tangible protections his people will have if a ceasefire is signed given that Russia has violated ceasefire agreements in the past. What a treat.
That is being disrespectful who are you to tell me what I will feel or what influence we will feel it’s a slight threat
 @brandonmiller4361  Remember he is not a native English speaker. He wanted to convey the essence of what he felt.
I’m shocked at how dim witted this comment especially is. “You have beautiful oceans, but you will feel it.” Our oceans are our most powerful soldiers and weapons of defense. Zelenskyy was inferring we will feel the wrath of war soon.  That’s a direct threat. I’m shocked by how many ppl miss this
​ @KinnereyB  If you would have watched not only 5 seconds of this entire 11 minutes but also even the entire meeting from other sources you would quickly realize that what Zelenskyy (*VERY OBVIOUSLY*) talked about was that the US will feel the influence of Russias imperialism it is currently practicing in the future if Ukraine falls. I can't even fathom how you are even capable of connecting his words of "you will feel influence" to  "We as Ukraine will go to war with the US, you will feel the wrath of war soon". What kind of reality bending mental gymnastics splits are you actually practicing to come to these kinds of conclusions!? 🤨
Sounds like a threat, he’s saying you’re good and comfortable now but you will feel the effects of war/terrorism. At the very least it’s Pessimism and Gloomcasting
​ @mjalex So we should lie to protect feelings? He's speaking with adults. They should be able to handle the truth.
Right he said that the oceans allow for a greater barrier to threats but when there is no buffer there us more danger
 @brandonmiller4361  Yes, I could understand only the logical comments. I can't understand the silly and illogical comments.
@ it’s not meant for incompetent people to get especially when it’s right it your face but good luck on remaining a sheep 🐑 ‼️ Trump and Vance ‼️👑👑
We don’t just hand over money for 4 years and not ask questions……we got rid of him
Trump wanted to shake him down and alpha male in front of the world.
That wasn't bullying. Zelensky was not conducting himself in humility and wisdom.  I haven't seen the entire conversation, this is just a snippet. But he acted like an adolescent. Like a teenage boy not getting his way. Very pecular to see.
And still this will help end the war and people being killed.
 @gillettecaleb9  oh come on, what would you do in his shoes?
Hey buddy. Ukraine takes donations. Send them your paycheck instead of forcing everyone to do it through taxes.
 @tinkerbell_fairy  if trump and his parties are really for the American people, then they should analyze what the war is doing to putin and russia as a country instead of trying to "oh you cant beat putin" to Z
They want a ceasefire, Zelinsky wants American troops on the ground, which would be an escalation.
😂...your comments are immature   When something like this comes to our town and our families and children are getting killed...then a ceasefire is must...tough talk is what I want when my country is on the line
Was there any doubt that was what they were at any point in time? Everyone knew this. At least those with a working brain and the ability to spot a con artist.
I see Trump grandstanding and trying to strong-arm Zelenskyy, and Vance rudely proclaiming that Z hasn’t shown any gratitude. Neither DT nor JDV had any intention of negotiating anything, at least not in this meeting. If this is our foreign policy, then WW3 is inevitable.
Trump doesn’t like it when he’s proven wrong and the other guy stays calm and speaks a leader.   Then he talks like 3 year old.  How embarrassing for our Country.  Our leader is insane.  Zelenskyy can’t believe what he’s hearing and he’s behaving as a gentleman.
Wow! He hasn’t done much talking. They have been dominating the entire conversation. Then when he stated facts they double team him. They didn’t have to act like that. Embarrassing. Then acting like he is a savior. SMH
Vance just wants him to grovel and kiss boots. What a schmuck
But America agreed to protect Ukraine in case of any threat to an invasion on their territory in 1994,,what's all these talk of being thankful and all that?
Ukraine seems back stabbed. Never give up nukes, or be spoken to like this.
This feels exactly like talking to a child who thinks he's grown. The temper tantrum is a huge indicator of narcissism.  Edit: I can't tell if some of yall need Jesus or a great therapist seeing how much you're bowing down to your orange messiah. I should feel sorry for you but I'm not American and don't care. Have fun with the increase of prices.
If you listen closely you can hear Putin laughing hysterically whilst chugging down his vodka
8:34 Trump is just unhinged here. Completely unrelated right wing memes endlessly regurgitated. This is the LEADER OF THE FREE WORLD defending democracy? The Post-American era has begun.
Do these individuals truly represent the United States of America? As a European, I am shocked by how they continue to bully Zelensky in such an ignorant and criminal manner, even criticizing his attire. Trying to gain economic advantages from Ukraine's desperation is criminal.
I think having 2+ individuals against one war weary individual is hard to watch. Did our President really want Zelensky to grovel?
So sad they didn't let Zelensky talk. Attacking Zelensky was brutal. Trump  and Vice President behavior was disgusting. I used to like Trump and Vice President, not anymore. They are making the world hate USA.
Is this actually real, or are those just avatars? If it’s truly real, it’s one of the most unbelievable things I could ever imagine.
The headline makes it appear that Zelenskyy was being as rude and ignorant as his hosts which clearly isn’t the case. He was the one being shouted down and insulted. A more accurate headline would be “Trump and Vance take turns berating Zelenskyy after starting a public argument about the war.” They tried to bully him like some kind of small time gangsters trying to implement a protection racket.
The title should be "Trump and Vance get into a shouting match while Zelensky is trying to Talk".
Hardly a shouting match. trump and vance start lying and gaslighting. Zelensky pushes back and the go into full toxic mode, up the ante on gaslighting trump starts shouting over zelensky and saying they should be thankful. Classic abusive behavior.
And we are proud, we should have nothing to do with other countries.
@Aiden_core2but we do so we must do the best we can instead of whatever this was
@ Go on and be proud. I don’t have the energy today.
He should have looked to make a deal to repay 100 billion in aid we sent these people. You know what now u can go defend urself. Good luck.
@Aiden_core2 So give Ukraine it's nukes back then? You do know we agreed to defend them against this in exchange for them giving up their nukes after the USSR fell?
 @rajeshwarshukla7302  We signed a treaty 30 years ago agreeing to this if it ever happened... the Budapest Memorandum
Yeah.  But the other choice was Kamala. So we didn't have a choice 😢
 @willapple8145  We invade other countries more than others? Enlighten me...after WWII America could have conquered tons of countries in Europe that were rubble and claimed them as our own. We instead helped and didn't take over any land.
 @ElfontheshelfPhilly  very short sighted. The US debt is huge, maybe we should call it in and see how well you do.
 @rajeshwarshukla7302 because Russia will gain resource in Ukraine. And what does resource give Russia?? More weapons and money to expand. There’s a reason why USA is funding Ukraine and it’s not to help Ukraine but to stop Russian from gaining natural resources
And he stood up for America the way we elected him to. Why should we keep sending money and weapons to a president that  isn't interested in ending the war? He knows if he's on his own he can't fight Russia. But with America in his corner he feels emboldened to continue the war and that's not what he was invited to the white house for. THAT is disrespectful.
​@Aiden_core2  we don't have the collective brain cells to be isolationists while still having bases in other countries.
​@Aiden_core2Just wait until you find out about how dependent you are on Chinese economy for example😂. God freedom of speech gives people the idea that they're experts in everything
@ There shouldn’t have been enough money in the world to make America vote him after his first term.
 @rajeshwarshukla7302  People help people and what goes around comes around. Will russia stop with Ukraine?
@Aiden_core2sure. America is the only country on earth. Just like how aliens seems to attack only America in movies.
not surprising at all when you look at the average american
 @dirtydoormat123  -- that was about as bad as it could have possibly went. They put Zelensky on the DEFENSIVE instead of listening to him and maintaining an open, positive convo.
 @tv26889  listening?  Huh  🤔  concept not considered.  They were too  excited (?)  The 3 should have smoked a bowl.  Perhaps we can get Putin over here? 🤷‍♂️ & do same.
So Zelensky complaining that a war is going on for years is somehow a failure on US? If we intervene, Russia could go nuclear with no alternative. That is why we have stay out for so long. Trump is wanting Zelensky to be thankful we have provided aid in the past but future aid is contingent on a mineral deal (something for something) instead of Joe just giving piles of cash away for nothing. I much rather this happen and Zelensky comes back with respect and a deal then try to play the blame game on everyone else like we just saw.
Go join the Ukraine army then get out of the states do us real americans a favor
Do you prefer the theatre we normally get like 24 hours earlier with starmer  ?   Starmer and lammy have spent the last 4 years calling Trump every name under the sun and now they are both on their knees to him   It's cringe and embarrassing
Agreed, it would’ve been nice to have a president who is competent and could answer questions about breaking a cease-fire with something other than I’m a tough guy
If you watch the full version on a different platform (I think it was Forbes that I watched), you can see Zelenskyy roll his eyes a lot and shrug his shoulders, shake his head all while Trump would be talking. I think that's what led Vance to snapping because Z was actually like a teenager instead of being respectful. That's just my opinion.
You are right! The whole world is in danger, with Trump at the wheel!
​@phexi419  and you probably smell like a sweaty worker at McDonald's
 @doraentertainment6507 well maybe if we still had sleepy joe the rest of world would be great and us americas would be living in a third world country.
A gentleman doesn't speak over another person, even if the other person speaks over him.
 @MaryDalgi  If you wanted a dictator why didn't you move to Russia instead of electing someone into the POTUS position who wanted to be?
Why speak with a leader in soft tones when the lives of Ukraine and Russia youth are on the line? With the losses in the hundreds of thousands this isn’t a situation to handle with kid gloves.
It’s called respect and appreciation. Would you take Billions of dollars from your friend and not say thank you?
Vance is kissing the boots of Trump . I'm proud of "Z"
 @DW-ut1sl  He’s his boss. lol. Do you come from a professional environment where going against your boss is ok?
vance trying to flex his muscles in front of the boss man
He's just getting tired of being number 3 in the White House.
​ @kameronk319 geopolitics is not comparable to office politics, especially when you're at war
@ Haha. You actually think so huh!? They had you fooled. He couldn’t even stand up out of his beach chair let alone to another man.
Not at all. Vance was just reminding him that arrogance and ignorance is not tolerated. That is not how you act at all. Not even worst enemies act like that. He's done, his political career is over. He mocked Vance, even said that "raising your voice doesn't make you right" and to Trump he said "in 3 days I heard it from Putin" insinuating that Trump is repeating Russian propaganda. Not smart whatsoever. No matter what political aisle you stand on
 @kameronk319  Thats hundreds of billions.  And we just kept seeing requests for more.  He should be thankful.
 @FettGaming  False. He's not the one trying to extort a country's resources in exchange for help that they should already be giving them because of a deal they made many years ago.
 @kameronk319  He already said thank you, numerous times. They're expecting him to say thank you for them trying to extort his country.
@ you mean giving him billions of dollars… would a simple thank you be good enough for you if you gave someone a billion. Nah, you would expect respect and gratitude.
@ Forsure… some of these people can’t fathom what that would be like though. Respect and gratitude could go a long way.
@ If “pick me” was a person it would have Kamala written all over it
 @stevepovkov9259 who finna go to war with Russia for some ungrateful jit. Without us they’d b gon in 2 was
Zelensky’s entitled attitude is what triggered JD. That guy is solely responsible for the tax burden on US citizens who are paying for this stupid war!
Exactly. These two are playing sick games with real people's lives at stake.
So many americans are homeless and US has already spemt 350billion dollars aiding Ukraine in a war that wont stop. How much more money should US spend?
 @HarveysWorkshop  Not quite $350 billion according to Trump's current State Department's records, closer to $120 billion, but no biggie, he was just off by $230 billion.  Speaking of homeless Americans though, what have you done to help them lately?
 @HarveysWorkshop  As much as it takes. We agreed to defend them in 1994 when they gave up being the third largest nuclear power on Earth.
 @GT-dh5nk  If it's worth anything, I've done plenty do help my community and homeless people. Unfortunately I do not have enough money or time to help out as much as I would like to. However, 120 billion from the government would do quite nicely. Too bad it's being used to fund foreign wars, rather than helping out citizens of the United States.
 @itssnowing7258 exactly these people are mindless and only see “Trump attack Zelenskyy” “Trump bully 😢” 😂
Ukraine never had its own nukes. They kept Russia’s nukes on its territory and never had access to them, as the activation codes were in Moscow. So stop spreading that BS already.
 @itssnowing7258  Not gonna say anything about this president cutting social programs that would help those people you're talking about to give tax breaks to the top one percent? If that's the case, then...? What are you doing?
You gotta know your place. Usa and Ukraine are not equals.
 @GT-dh5nk That still a hundred billion dollars dude. Why are you trying to shrug that off?
 @factory8138  The US agreed, but the US isn’t obligated to do anything. The Budapest Memorandum was not a legally binding defense treaty. Sounds harsh but I would much rather Ukraine get destroyed than to start WW3 over it.
 @PaintingOfTheMind  What have I done? Handing out food and blankets to homeless in my city on my own time.
 @GT-dh5nk  people don't want to directly help they want more of our taxes to help people in need instead of funding wars, but yeah, overall mostly agree with you
 @GT-dh5nk  its over $350 billion total including cash and military hardware we have gave almost $150 billion in cash alone
Those nukes belonged to the Soviet Union 😂😂😂😂 not Ukraine. U stole the land and then named it Ukraine 😂😂😂😂
 @tylerdphoto  I'm not shrugging it off, I happen to be of the belief that it's well spent and necessary, rather than giving it over to billionaires and bending over to Russia.
Actually the nukes where poorly maintained I can’t remember if any were even usable to be honest
 @HarveysWorkshop  I thought the money was pumped back into upgrade old equipment cuz missles expires and it was more expensive to get rid of em ourselves
@jesterj8526  you thought wrongly.  A proxy war costs money.  A proxy war that results in a never ending war is a money drain.
 @tylerdphoto  Because 100 billion, (Massively rounded up to what we actually spent so far) was not all at once, or even in one year. It was planned for five. Do you know how much the DOD budget is every year?
 @PaintingOfTheMind  No, you are completely wrong. It is not rounded up. When I said “100 billion” I rounded WAY down. We’ve given much more than 100 billion.   “As of April, Congress has appropriated more than $174 billion to assist Ukraine.” Source: Government Accountability Office website. Posted on September 24, 2024.
By send money I mean equipment and pump money into ourselves to replace older equipment
I genuinely can't tell if your talking about trump or zelinskiy. Maybe that's the point.
Yea, how dare Zelenskyy disrespect America like that?! Glad President Trump ain’t no pushover, like president poopy pants’ Biden
yeah he just comes here and asks for money , what was the first impeachment about ?
I've studied enough about narcissistic traits. Yes, sometimes Trump does have it, but in this case he showed none. He was thinking about America the whole time except with the "Russia Russia Russia" comment which he should say because he's the most attacked man with a backbone I've ever seen.
 @JacobVashchenko seriously? Trump and Vance are trying to act strong and assertive, but they come off looking weak, and mean.
@roberttheberge1966  i don't think the optics are what matters. I came away from this seeing two people trying to help someone from their own destruction.
Many Americans like me are embarrassed that he represents us. I loved reading your comment. We are indeed screwed
 @groovymovie84  YouTube isn’t studying, homie. I bet you barely finished high school, dope.
 @JacobVashchenko  I despise both Zelenski and Trump (and Putin for that matter), they're both alt-right and have supported/done despicable things, but please point to where in this video Zelenski could be interpreted as having a "temper tantrum" as this commenter put it?
sounds like a segment from hannity with jd vance regurgitating talking points they’ve used for the past 4 years
“You went to Pennsylvania in Oct and campaigned for the opposition party…you should be grateful to this administration that is trying to help you…you should say thank you…” Wow
But also 1 tear rolling down his face. Because he wont get to use his signature to gain enemy territory through an "agreement"  "Haha, my toes were crossed" - Putin
While I’m sure he is laughing, he is actually a teetotaler
No, nobody can hear that. You made this up for likes.
When you are asking for aid, you shouldn't threaten and mock the other party. "You have nice oceans..." is what set Trump off unplanned and if you Europeans have eyes you can pretty much see that
 @carriec.9834  Okay, but then you have to stop being the leader of the free world, and that title will go elsewhere...cool?
 @clarkhui543 how is that threatening them? He is simply expressing that if Ukraine falls the impact will be felt in the US eventually.
 @terristrange  Oh, absolutely! Because when you're leading a country through a war, the most important thing is to look like you just stepped off a fashion runway. Zelensky's attire is perfectly appropriate for someone who's busy, you know, defending his nation and all. Priorities, right?
@ 😂 a suit isn’t a fashion statement it’s the uniform of the job.
It’s a figure of speech the Ukrainian doesn’t know our lingual
“Yeah you are, you’re gambling with world war 3”. Left out the finale
 @dennislicea2437  He completely understood it. He responded, "I'm not playing cards. I'm serious."
 @dennislicea2437  he understood the figure of speech and was trying to rebuttal back with a response that indicated he was taking things seriously. perhaps it is you that does not quite understand the language friend. :)
Oh honey. Trump just all the cards from all of us. ​ @DAGODER 
 @dennislicea2437  I think he purposely said that. The guy is a comedian.
​ @dennislicea2437 he understood. He's saying he's not trying to play the game trump is playing, he just wants Russia to leave his country alone.
 @dennislicea2437  Ukrainian has the same figure of speech, he is aware
Neil postman was right. American no longer talk to each other they entertain each. Now trump was failing to entertain his people.
​ @dennislicea2437 Ukrainian has a word for word equivalent of this expression. He fully understood what Trump was saying.
He said that, cause he's the one making this into a game
I think all people extreme left and extreme right can agree with this 😂😂😂
 @marcspence1905 Bro stop, even if you say it as a joke stop. that’s how people start believing misinformation. This is real, very real and embarrassing.
you honestly think this doesn't happen all the time... difference is the cameras were rolling.... you are extremely naive.
This is how politicians speak behind closed doors.  Zelensky is so deluded that he needs to be scolded.
​@alfredoangueiraalvarez8599  I'm not the biggest fan of Trump and he could've 100% handled this better but Zelensky needs a reality check
Two leaders having a passionate discussion based on their views? Yes it’s real and thank goodness it is. America is sick of people in power just rolling over to the other side. Arguments are healthy. I think it’s a leader’s responsibility to maintain composure, however they’re still people with emotions. Zelenskyy’s pride is keeping him from making an agreement
“Trump has been in the talks with Putin” aka my homie stole this guys watch and now I’m gonna help him look for the watch. That’s what these mineral and concrete deals are that trump is pushing with Ukraine.
 @jrice5067  Even republicans are starting to turn on your daddy Trump, only the true cultist sheep can’t see accept how awful he is
 @annaromero213  Embarrassing for Ukraine. President Trump put his thang on his shoulder.
I can't even believe it either. My heart is broken to the world.We need to pray for peace and healing
I think people are finally realizing only our Father and the Son can truly bring the peace and security the whole globe needs, however somewhere the Bible says there will be a false sense of peace and security that finally does happen, however this period will not last long for it says when they are saying peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them and they by no means will escape because God's Day will arrive soon after. I feel like this prophecy is getting near its conclusion week by week, day by day.
 @marcspence1905   and you’re as smart as the rest of the libs
@  you have the grammar of a 12 year old Claudio, stay tf out of American politics 🤡. Keep coping lib.
If you think rudeness is only measured by volume and someone can't be calm and rude, then you are either a liar or a fool.
 @benjaminmontoya8160  Correct me if I'm wrong, but Z asks if he can speak and Trump quite literally says no. This is in addition to both Trump and Vance constantly talking over him. Also, if I'm not mistaken only one person starts throwing insults and calling their predecessors names. You might want to rewatch this video again if you're trying to say Z was rude compared to the other two.
How??? Zelensky seemed rude and also said we will be next and threatened the 🇺🇸 I would of ended it and sent him packing and put another president of Ukraine in office Zelensky lost his mind
 @benjaminmontoya8160  Then please point out WHERE Zelensky was rude! Also if you start to yell at a meeting you already have lost control of your temper. That is 101 of common sense.
 @u.s.1974  101 common sense says when you’re getting your a** beat you should humbly approach negotiations
hear the entire thing.  he was shockingly entitled and disrespectful as soon as he started talking.
 @Casper_friendly_ghost   tell me what I don’t know, respectfully. What do I not understand. Give me your opinion and I promise I will respect it.
 @ibrahimkayikci2146  I disagree!!! That’s your opinion I think it was disrespectful and a threat!!
@Casper_friendly_ghost yeah you said that already. I’m more than happy to hear what you have to say, I don’t know everything
 @Casper_friendly_ghost  you don’t know my age and I don’t know yours. You’re just a troll
​ @u.s.1974 if you are telling the post master, you got it wrong. He had the same opinion as you😮
He don't want a cease fire what do you not understand 😊
Zalinsky wasn't supposed to bring this up. That's why Trump said no.
The fact that he’s commenting “great television” he thinks he’s still on a reality show rather than a professional who’s supposedly working for the American people
This is soooo cringe, so absolutely mob shakedown cringe. Sickening beyond belief.
My president and vice president just embarrassed me… that was a disgrace, literally. So many lives lost for our leaders to act like this… I bite my thumb at thee
This is disgusting. I voted for Trump/Vance. I wish I could take my vote back if this is the way they are going to be.   I do not see at all that Zelensky was offensive.  He told the Truth that Putin breaks every truce and diplomacy doesn't work. Vance is the worst.
Zelenskyy "wants to fight, fight, fight." What a stupid thing to say. No objective observer of what Zelenskyy said and how he said it could think that's what he wants to do. Zelenskyy doesn't want to see his people continue to suffer. He wants Russia to stop fighting and get out of his country. And he doesn't want Putin and his troops to come back. That is what he's concerned about and that's what he was attempting to convey.  Zelenskky was not arguing with Trump.  Trump and Vance were arguing with him.  Any objective observer can see that for themselves.   As far as the freshman in the room, Vance had no business making a political statement comparing Trump to Biden in a diplomatic meeting.  Vance then accused Zelenskyy of being disrespectful and attacking the administration that is trying to help him.  Zelenskyy said nothing that could be considered an attack on the Trump administration.  If you asking me, Vance’s conduct was freshman like – a real rookie move.  And what was Trump doing going into a diatribe about the so-called Russia hoax, “phony Hunter Biden Joe Biden scam, Democrat scam?” How is that pertinent to the diplomatic agreement between the US and Ukraine?  Freshman, Jesse? – that was more like Kindergarten.
During WW2, Britain was against the ropes and was receiving US lend-lease aide. I don't remember Roosevelt telling Churchill that he should surrender, or be grateful, called him a tyrant or said he attacked Germany. Those were different times, I know.
just curious is this how entitled people that's used to money and power treat other people??
Zelenskyi: says thank you fifty times "You haven't at all been thankful"  What a moron
At 6:21 you actually see Trump pushing Zelensky. THAT is disrespectful, not whatever nonsense JD was trying to push.
Zelensky went to war with his people nobody ever did that for there country
Funny how Trump says that the lifes are most important. But if he doesn't get the minerals he will not support Ukraine anymore. Well he made Putin happy and I guess that was the point. Bff
Imagine after Germany invaded Poland in 1939 making a deal where Germany could keep half of Poland and imagine telling Ignacy Mościcki that he wasn't being very thankful.
Vice president can't keep his mouth shut when someone is trying to talk
Trump and Vance did horrible. They speak of diplomacy but aren’t diplomatic at all. They were being disrespectful to him. Vance shouldnt have been there or opened his mouth either. He was very arrogant and condescending to Z. You can Let the man speak and Be understanding while being in control of the conversation and finding a peaceful solution. Yelling doesnt help to make peace.
Watching Trump feels like when your drug addict parent tries to pick you up but they show up high, half dressed, and belligerent.. so you just shrink down wishing desperately this was not actually happening...
To be fair, Trump only lost his cool for about 5 min. The fist 2 minutes and the last few minutes were blunt but fair.  The real instigator in this drama is Vance. Zelensky has said thank you and complimented America 🇺🇸 and Trump enough times to risk being a sycophant.  To any objective observer, Zelensky didn’t disrespect anyone in public. Vance was lecturing and scolding the president of a war torn country.  Zelensky was politely explaining the situation to two men who clearly haven’t done their homework.
“What if a bomb drops on your head right now” -Trump 🤣
I guess you don't know how negotiations actually happen behind closed doors? There is give and take, and Zelensky was blaming everyone else and our leaders asked for respect and a mineral deal to make it worth our time to side with Ukraine.
You know what's cringe? Someone using it twice in the same sentence...
 @Gromitz101  They don't deserve his respect. They don't show him any respect.
@evanmassimino3416  You're right. I apologise.  I should have added that same word cringe at least 10 more times.
@Gromitz101  Sure, your administration is extremely concerned about peace, therefore it's logical to tie that to the signing of a shakedown deal imposed upon the victim of constant military aggression, without offering any tangible assurances.  Great TV indeed!
Oh yah because what's worse Ukraine giving up some land or starting a nuclear holocaust? Why don't people think anymore in this world?
 @corning1  Ukraine has given up enough land. Now, they've been invaded by Russia. If the US was invaded, would you be giving the same advice?
 @jonnyb.animationstutorials7119  what should we really do? I’m seriously asking. Having our people there getting resources will be a deterrent for decades. Putin is a bad person. Sometimes you gotta cave some. You just gotta be realistic here. He holds the cards, Ukraine doesn’t. I really don’t care about their feelings.
 @Gromitz101  A deal that would net them over twice the amount of aid we gave Ukraine. One he is trying to make after stopping all aid to the country weeks after he was put into power. Gross.  Also it behooves us to keep agreements we make with our allies in the first place. Guess what not helping them does?
 @PaintingOfTheMind  this is idiotic because there is always a new president not a king. Things change.
@cmdraven  Yes teacher. Thank you teacher. Please teach us the grammatically correct spelling for "DORK", teacher.
You have a weird definition of sickening. Zalinsky spoke out of turn. That wasn't the time or place to discuss the peace negotiations
 @imsteamboat9774   no but he has been stopping wars free Palestine 🇵🇸
Zelensky needs to hear it. Ukraine lost the war a long time ago, yet he keeps sacrificing millions of men on the front lines. End the war.
He spoke up for americans. Like how zelensky fights for his people
That was not even close to how you maintain a productive meeting.
Vance was 100% right. Rolling into the White House like he owns it. Go home Zelensky
No , Vance escalated nothing.  Remember these are all different personalities from different politicians.   Biden has the laid back approach he was a listener more then a speaker.     Trump approaches things like a strict boss.  Vance with his soldier background and conservative nature ... He's cut the chit chat and soothsaying , He puts exactly what he thinks right there on the table you can eat it or spit it out.    Honestly Zelenski keeps flying out here the president and vp take time to talk to them. Why sit around and talk nice, just air out the laundry and stop wasting time talking sweet
Zelensky directed a hostile argument at him in front of the media…
 @daniellerose2418  They said exactly what a lot of tax payers think. There are a lot of people tired of getting bent by taxes just to help out strangers  across the world.   Before you say we just gave them old equipment.  No that costs money, the equipment, firearms, iron dome, vehicles technology.  Someone has to be paid to transport these things, check functionality, or repair and maintain it so it's ready for Ukraine to use. Someone has to maintain, fuel , and load our choppers and ships that transport these things over to Ukraine.  It all costs money and we all pay for it.  And paying for it is what many people are fed up with.   Do you think the military equipment magically appears over there , fully functioning nope.
You probably "don't remember" because you weren't sitting in the room with them.
 @jamesgillespie355  It's completely fair and logical to infer such a thing never happened. There would have never been words like that among gentlemen.
 @presentmike777  Do you know why? Because of NATO and because of the United States honoring it's agreements. You just sunk your own case.
 @sfmc98  that is irrelevant. Nothing you said helps defend this poor analogy. Bring some more substance next time
Not even the same thing.  The British empire is and was an ally of ours. Ukraine is not.  And not only that, both countries had an agreement and helped each other while Ukraine is taking billions of dollars while we get nothing in return.
 @vatorerm4675 ehh, an enemy against Russia is an ally of the USA
 @jamesgillespie355  are trumpers like you all this daft? Oh wait....yeah forget I asked.
My husband says this all the time!😂 UK just paid back in full only in 90's
I feel that it is not respectful comparing Frankline Roosevelt with Donald Trump.
 @LadyV757  By 2006. Then they issued an official thank you to the US 43 years after the comedy line in It’s a Mad Mad Mad Mad World: “If it hadn’t been for lend-lease, if we hadn’t kept your whole country afloat by giving you billions that you never even said thank you for”😂.
I think he is not a moron, it is on purpose
 @darkenergy436  he knows he said thank you many times. He just wants to make him look bad and push him over the edge.
 @devrim-oguz  oh, yes, i see what you're saying. I also feel as though it's likely that Trump just had a list of points he was supposed to go through, either pre-prepared by the administration, or within his head (though, i think that the former is more likely given that J.D. Vance repeatedly reinforced or propped up points for Trump to continue on with), rather than actually listen to what Zelenskyi had to say.
Yup, time to pay the piper. Things are tough all over, homie.
The US gave him 380 billion dollars, and where has that gone?
⁠ @ryanralston1466 the U.S. gave him 125 billion in military aid while giving 50 billion to investments in Europe, while still NOT upholding the promised peace that the U.S. signed with Ukraine in exchange for the Soviet nukes Ukraine had.  And where has that gone? Into the hands of Europe & into the soldiers of an invading country (who can then fertilize the ground they were trampling)
trump aggreements somehow can make a big difference in this war, i understand what he is up to, but in this talk, he could do better than trying to humilliate zelensky in the front of the world.
Hitler and Goering would have probably done it with a little more decency and class than Donald and JD. At least they wouldn't have been wearing orange face paint and eyeliner. Different haircuts too, but comparable stylishness.
I love how you presume to have so much knowledge on the Ukraine Russia war that you were able to make a comparison to Hitler and Poland. 👌
We let Stalin have half of Poland in 1939 and that was fine apparently.
Jesus it is disgusting how Trump is conducting this. Have some respect for Zelensky.
I am shocked at Trump and Vance's behavior.  I am ashamed to be an American now. I stand with Ukraine.
I can see the frustration of a war funded with billions of dollars that they’re losing, trying to prevent WW3, and I understand not being able to trust Russia when they’ve broken treaties. It’s a lot of intense emotions. What a mess. 🤦🏻‍♀️
wow… i’m ashamed of our leadership… so disrespectful to President Zelensky….. “You’ll fight it out” is so heartless….
Every discussion with trump feels like hearing some highschool bully who cant shut up for a second
This is embarrassing to watch!! I never saw a another head of the state, whatever the context is being disrespected this far. This is not diplomacy!! Okay stop funding Ukraine more? Get it. That’s understandable. But insulting a head of a state in a bilateral meeting like this is so unbecoming!! Such a disgrace!! Sorry to say this
I think Vance made this a lot worse than it should’ve been. I honestly believe if it was just Trump and Zelenskyy it would’ve went better but then again I’m not sure.
Although I'm not a fan of the cold, Canada's looking really good right now. If we survive this presidency without WWIII starting, it'll be by the grace of God.
I'm confused. What was Ukraine gonna gain in this "deal" if there were no security guarantees? Why cave in to coercion to sign something that doesn't benefit you? Stand up to bullies is all I can say.
Everybody involved in this drama was wrong.  You don't appear before the press and the public while arguing, but AFTER you have come to some agreement -- in PRIVATE.  And humiliating Zelensky like that can only encourage Putin to demand more concessions.    Nobody, and I mean NOBODY, looked good in this shitshow.
“This is not a card game,” Zelensky says to the dude who is the personification of “3 Card Monte!” WHEW! Soooooooo embarrassing to see 45 and pRESIDENT MUSK’s spokesperson, JV, make such fools of their selves!
Zelensky looked really bad and weak in this. Ukraine needs a real leader
Shameful.  This was not a meeting of world power. This was messy kitchen talk. Not at all a professional meeting About War😢
9:50 If only there wasn't so much at stake this would have been the cue for Zelensky to sock Trump in the face.
When trump said he broke the deal with Bush or Obama..Biden. I dont know .. I dont kniw what happened.... Shouldn't it be your job to know what happened. Shouldn't you know the complete and detailed history of this conflict and US involvement.
Perhaps you should watch the whole video and not let WSJ manipulate you by giving you an edited one.  They're not stupid, they cut the video just right to make it look like Zelensky wasn't being a war-monger and uncivil.
I’m sure they would be more than willing to have you on the frontlines. When will you be leaving?
They're not losing. The shift to drone warfare has gone very well, Russia has been stuck in the same position for ages with troops refusing to be fed into a meat grinder, Russia's resources are drying up. Ukraine is holding on very well.
Okay, but if we just give him what he wants, we are going to pay for him to fight it out anyway. Zelensky is not going to cease fire.
well would you rather keep paying for it in taxes, your grandkids will be paying on it too
I'm tired of hearing people just say this in america. You aren't leaving and starting a new life in Canada, and Spain would be the better option, but you also won't do that.
I love all the MAGA replies telling people to leave. If all the educated members of society leave all they will be left with is the plot to Idiocracy.
They have benefited billions from the USA........  They OWE the USA
@carly1478  Clearly you don't know how to read. That was not the question.
Ukraine already gain $350 billions, what else they want to gain?
 @charlesmcshonay5901  they have ALREADY GAINED. YOUR QUESTION HAS ALREADY BEEN ANSWERED..
In 1994, the USA, Russia and Great Britain persuaded Ukraine to give up nuclear weapons, giving it guarantees of security and protection in case of an attack by anyone. This was Ukraine's main mistake. Now Ukraine is asking for help.   https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Budapest_Memorandum
Yea because  the  u.s wasn't  gonna protect  there investment? Okay... 100 percent  they would have had  more support if they made a deal
 @УльянаОвсянникова-з4ъ  The claim that the United States has provided $350 billion in aid to Ukraine since the war began in 2022 is false. As of February 2025, the U.S. has appropriated approximately $175 billion for Ukraine-related assistance. Of this, about $120 billion has been allocated directly to Ukraine, encompassing military assistance, budget support, and humanitarian aid. The remaining funds have been directed toward related activities, such as bolstering European defenses and addressing global food insecurity.
 @AD-oy8nm  agreed, and the other part of that equation that consistently gets ignored is the fact that the vast majority of that money was spent domestically in the US to military contractors and suppliers, and those weapons and aid related supplies were then shipped to Ukraine. Ukraine may have received $120B worth of military equipment, goods and services, but they DEFINITELY didn't receive anywhere near that much in cash from the US/ US taxpayers.
@The truth doesn't matter to the people in power. The American right idolizes Russia's homogeneous culture and society. It's not about Ukraine.
There was a meeting behind close doors, and then there was 50 min press conference. This is just the last 11 minutes.  Edit: Apparently I'm wrong. This was before the scheduled meeting. And the meeting itself got cancelled...
 @Hexanitrobenzene  - Well, whatever the schedule was, they made a pig's breakfast out of it.
??? superstar Zelenskyy....come on. Do you know how many offshore companies he has? In Cyprus?
You’re right. He should be slapping him instead. He wants taxpayer money to continue paying for a losing war that puts America in the crosshairs, and not to mention gets his wife expensive shopping sprees in France and Italy. He keeps talking about a “ceasefire.” Did he think taking steps to include Ukraine in NATO, in conjunction with the state department, wouldn’t provoke Russia? I hate Trump but he’s absolutely right here.
One world power and a beggar nation on its last leg.
I don't have enough popcorn to last me the next few years.
Trump. I voted for you. I still believe you are better than the alternative. But you were just nasty. This was unprofessional and nasty on your part.
Vance talks to him like he's a child. Why was this meeting on television? Oh wait, "This is going to be great television, I will say that".
Trump and Vance may have gotten heated, but were they wrong? I’m asking because I genuinely don’t know. Please don’t come for me in the replies. I want to know if they were arguing from facts or if this was propaganda and lies. I’m an American citizen who is genuinely concerned for my country and the world.
Literally didn't let him speak at all. Because they can speak English better and faster they knew they could talk over him.
I’m a nurse, and unfortunately I am too old to volunteer in a Ukrainian hospital — otherwise, I would.  I have never been more embarrassed by the supposed leader of the free world.  Trump, Vance and all the rest of Putin’s lapdogs are on the wrong side of history.  I hope Zelensky makes the rare earth deal with the EU, Canada and/or England, and Trump never sees the first ounce!  Zelensky will go down in history as a brave leader of his country, who told truth to power.  Trump will go down as someone who just told himself he liked the taste of Putin’s shoe polish.  Slava Ukraine!
In a desperate plea for aid, a war-torn nation's representative warns a seemingly unaffected nation that the conflict's repercussions, though unseen now, will inevitably affect them, even with their "clean oceans" symbolizing current prosperity. He tries to get the other man to understand the war's long-term he war, and that not only his nation will suffer. However, the powerful nation's leader coldly dismisses this, asserting dominance and denying any shared fate. He demands unconditional gratitude and acceptance of their terms, or they will withhold aid, effectively condemning the war-torn nation to destruction. This highlights a stark power imbalance and the ruthless exploitation of desperation.
“We’re gonna feel very good and very strong” is such a toddler sentence.
Mind you. This started bc Zelenskyy simply pointed out how Russia has never been diplomatic towards Ukraine and he asked “What diplomacy are you talking about with Russia?”
Never thought we’d see a US President openly arguing Russian talking points in the White House after they invaded a sovereign state. Politics aside, this cowardly man who scammed his way to avoid service is a disgrace to our country and the countless US soldiers who have risked or even sacrificed their lives to protect our great nation from threats such as Russia.
I think what set it off the rails. Zelenskyy saying you will feel it one day.
If anyone watch this and think the way these two treated Zelensky is good, your judgment is poor.  PERIOD!
I'm really glad I saw this the United States government is a joke
That's if we're still here the next few years with where we're headed
amazon has a good deal rn 24 pack for like 12 bucks
Your popcorn might be a little burnt if this lot are what stands between the world and Putin 🤦‍♂️
The alternative was an educated politician who cares for everyone, but you didn’t like her laugh or her skin color.
@shushmebro3845  I didn't care for her suckiing everyone up to her position. She absolutely is not a match for Trump and that was evidently so
Almost like he wanted to humiliate Zelensky and signal his support for Putin…
The majority of American voters, this time around, chose the Presidential candidate who was a Guaranteed Media Freak Show. Mr. Trump is just acting on that “mandate.” 24 hours/day.
With someone who has Trump's personality, you have to disagree right away. If you give him an inch, he'll take several miles.
​ @jm1657 yeah, at least for his voters there should be nothing to complain about..but this is crazy
THIS IS WHAT AMERICAN WANTS! yall are so obessed with status, fame and money this is what you get.
@ Reckless comment. Because no one’s got a right to malign all people of a nation. Think before you post.
We're not in someone elses country begging for money for an unwinnable war. THAT is embarrassing.
This is eye-opening for people. This is not embarrassing, this is what we voted for. He is doing God's work.
lol what? We have Americans volunteering and fighting Russians. This is dangerous. Next step? TAIWAN. This is embarrassing to even break down for you.
Completely agree. Absolutely no thanks for the billions of dollars and military aid given to save his own country!
Calm down Peter. Because he has the guts to speak up…. He’ll take care of the border as well.  😂
True, any head of state who has to say "nobody is tougher than me" is proving the opposite.
​@Shoolkin  humiliating for Ukraine & harmful to USA seriousness. Zelensky is a clown, but he represents a freaking country, he should have acted with proud.
On the contrary.  I like this outside in the open without closed doors.    Trump is right that Biden was just a doormat when it came to international affairs.
 @johnscreativechanneling6850  he said Biden was pounding his chest.  In other words, not capitulating to Russia as we are now.  It's Trump that is proving to be a doormat.
 @igorsm9397  yes.  ego beyond reason.      Maybe Elon could whisper to someone. Maybe to both sides..  Intelligent wisdom should seemingly override  'emotions'(?)
@natashahilderbrandrealtora5498  perhaps be thankful that both sides of this meet are strong people.   Maybe someone will wake-up smarter.
@stevemiller2706 Zelensky does not call the shots here in the US. You weak minded liberals seem to forget that.
Yes, it was. If I were Zelenski I'd just stop panhandling in America at this point.
But he’s right. If Russia continues in this direction we might
 @eduardozamudio7637  Yes, it runs daily now. Cartman is on the Oval Office.
IF THIS DOES NOT SOUND JUST LIKE A GOOD FELLOWS AND MAFIA MEETING I DON’T KNOW WHAT DOES! 😢
This is embarrassing as an American.  Two bullies jumping on a guy who has lost thousands of people.  Trump and Vance have list their minds.
The contrast couldn't be clearer:  Zelenskyy: Composed, factual, fighting for his nation's survival - A true leader.  Trump and Vance: Bullying an ally in full public display, personal grievances, emotional outbursts. So much for "the art of the deal."
Finally a video without talking heads trying to tell us what to think.
Why should any world leader allow themselves to be haranged by cruel immature posers? They have constituents too.
JD interrupted and would not allow the Zelensky to explain his side of the story.  JD is rude and comes off as ignorant along with Trump. Very disappointed in how the Trump administration treated Zelensky.
Eu needs to give them money if they're so worried. With no ocean in between them
He's just telling Zelenski he should make a deal and accept the harsh reality that it's going to be a compromise, I don't really see why Trump get so much critique over this. Except maybe the rant about Hunder Biden, that's not too relevant here :)
trump and vance trying to tag team zelensky , like some middle school bullies. republicans are embarassing
And trump needs to be impeached and Vance should just go home
This government is a SHAME on U.S.A.'s history. Too much ARROGANCE & VULGARITY..
This may be the first time I’ve ever seen everyone In America united against trump! He screwed up didn’t he 😂
I love where Trump says he and Putin have been through a lot together... lol....
Zelensky needs a medal for putting up with the two clowns that were shouting at him.
Got so much disappointment and disrespect from US government! How childish and pathetic to talk to Zelenskyy this way.
😂 you're funny all he had to do was say thanks for  helping but he was the disrespectful one i guess your parents  are bully's too when they tell you  how it's gonna be ?
Yeah this kindergarten clown 🤡  show was emphatically better 😂😂😂
Did we watch the same thing? I saw JD let Zelensky finish when he said "Can I ask you", JD said sure and let Zelensky finish with no interruptions. Then Zelensky asked JD "What kind of diplomacy JD you are speaking about". That is when Zelensky was talking over JD.
Only 37% Americans voted, so not really what American wants.  All Americans that can vote need to actually vote, otherwise this is what happens.
People seem to either forget or just don't realize that as far as the popularity vote goes, Trump won by a slim margin. Don't lump us all together...
A no vote or abstained vote or a vote for any other candidate besides Kamala was a vote for Trump.  💯
Zelenskyy is the one who owns us taxpayers money at the end of the day🤷🏻‍♂️not the other way around
 @claudioescobar6159  Maybe you should try opening a history book. We are obligated to defend Ukraine because we signed the Budapest memorandum in 1994. That is when they willingly gave up being the third largest nuclear power on the planet.
 @factory8138  You are misinformed.   The US is  NOT Obligated to defend ANYONE Except the People and land of the United STATES and our territories.   'Memorandums' are basically bi-lateral  agreements, sometime multi-lateral agreemnets but not the same as CONTRACTS or Lawful TREATIES.   The US has never CONTRACTED to 'PROVIDE SECURITY' to ANY Country.   Find THE LEGAL MEANING OF MEMORANDUM.
@ So... according to you our word means nothing. Sounds about right for the Trump Trash brigade.
He can’t go one minute in his life without bringing up Obama or Biden. He really needs help! 🤦🏽‍♀️
I still can’t believe trump is what we got. Just wow
I’m sorry Zelenskyy and Ukraine people 💔 our president is only about profits and power and EGO
Is this how a international bilateral strategic meeting works ? The level of intelligence and maturity is below freezing point.
I don't think that they should of had this conversation in front of the press.
Ugh that was tense. Seems like there's a lot of stuff we don't know. But I appreciate the transparency.
Putting a clown in the castle doesn't make him a king, it makes tha castle a circus. Well done America😂😂
How much blow does Zeleny goes through a week? Look at him.
The disrespect, for those asking, was trying to change the deal in front of live cameras
Lost all respect for the American government  . Give him a chance to talk PLEASE !
I bet trump wouldn't dare talk to xi or putin like that. So unprofessional and disrespectful.
That’s clinical narcissism playing out where trump, the biggest narcissist and JD Vance, the Narcissist and the enabler, gaslight the Ukrainian president and calls his genuine reaction to their abuse disrespect! Worst times and so scary to watch
JD Vance just burned his 2028 prospects to ashes. He is just a vile pathetic manipulative bully, nothing more. I thought he is the potential one for 2028 but man this showed who he really is.
Trump saying Putin wont break deals with him is the equivilant if Taylor Swifts "but daddy i love him, i can change him, i can"
I don’t think he’s litigating it in front of the media he’s speaking facts so how are they going to settle this diplomacy by taking mineral from Ukraine this is so crazy
Did you miss the part where zalinsky said the war started in 2014?
Funny, I remember saying the same thing about our last president who fell UP a flight of stairs
well u people keep asking for the most famous or the richest person to lead the country you no what this country needs? Boring politics full of ivy league nerds and CSPAN 2 am senate sessions again thats what we need
Look at Kefka. He was a clown that ended up as a god
Documentary showed him in a good light, but his actions show otherwise.
A very slight push,but yeah,it's a way to assert dominance. Totally uncalled for. Personal space is to be respected.
😂 TF?! Putin dont respect you Trump. This Administration is a joke.
Crosses his arms and rolls his eyes like a high school girl, that’s what triggered trump
What an embarrassing outing from these US "leaders." Can you imagine how humiliated Zelensky must feel that without these idiots their country will be difficult to safe.
I WONDER JUST WHAT ELON HAS TO SAY TO TRUMP AFTER THIS? WOW!!
Both President Trump and vice president whatever his name is sound very ignorant, going back-and-forth like highschoolers so unethical unprofessional. It’s a shame that they’re in that speaking.
"The other side isn't exactly in love with him either." Evil knows no love!
It's crazy how we spend so much time worrying about politics and wars, but we forget the most important foundation- our piece.  Recently l read Mind decoding by Keezano, book goes beyond surface-level advice, it actually explains how your subconscious mind is programmed and how to break free from limiting beliefs. I was stuck in the same cycle for years, but after reading this everything changed. This book is seriously powerful…
Televising this was not appropriate. This was a hard conversation that needed to be had, but not in front of the world. I understand Zelenskyy’s trepidation about Putin not respecting the cease fire, but he said he will not compromise with Russia, even for the sake of peace. Trump reassured him that Putin respects him and will honor an agreement, trying to coax him to the table. Zelenskyy flat out refused, he just wants protection without compromise and that is not how peace agreements work. For example, after ww1 Germany was treated so harshly that it gave rise to ww2. Lasting peace requires compromise regardless that the aggressor deserves nothing. Trump is correct in that Zelenskyy cannot dictate terms but the public humiliation was completely counterproductive. Hash it out behind closed doors. The US is stepping in to mediate and offer both nations a deal to benefit all 3 countries and move forward in peace.
Seriously. Besides throwing billions of dollars prolonging the war resulting in more casualties. What do we do?
Whats wrong with litigating the issues in front of the media though? We all deserve to hear what we are involved in.
Trump to America's allies: 😡🤬😤🤬🤬🤬🤬🤬😡😡😡  Trump to America's enemies: 🥰😍🤩😘😘😘🤑🤑🫡
I don’t think he’s litigating it in front of the media he’s speaking facts so how are they going to settle this diplomacy by taking mineral from Ukraine this is so crazy
Rights. Lets just go to these "idiots", ask for billions of dollars, and disrespect them in their own office. You must not pay taxes in the U.S
For what? This war could have been easily avoided if he knew how diplomacy worked.
But you can't make concessions to Putin. As Zelensky pointed out, he constantly breaks ceasefire deals. You can't trust him to honor a new agreement.
між Україною і США підписано договір, що ми союзники. Про які поступки Ви кажете? Після другої світової війни, були виведені всі війська німеччини з окупованих ними територій, був суд, було покарання, були накладені і сплачені репарації. росія напала на незалежну країну двічі 2014 і 2022 , хоча було підписано припинення вогню  і мирні домовленності які росія не виконала. Трамп - не Бог, путін і його обмане, він так робить постійно і про це попереджав президент Зеленський. Мій дім знаходиться в місті Запоріжжя, путін окупував половину Запорізької області, а вимагає віддати йому всю область разом з областним центром. Так само із Херсоном. На окупованих територіях живуть українці і чекають на своє звільнення.  Трамп з путіним домовились  про швидкий мир на умовах нападника - росії. Це справедливо? наші військові 3 роки стримують ворога, хоча перші 6 місяців нам ніхто зброю не давав, ми купили у США 100 джавелінів(Трамп заборонив їх використовувати у війні проти росії). Ми тримаємо нашу країну і потребуємо справедливого миру для України, бо ми - жертва нападу!
Are you kidding me? We gave billions of dollars towards the war. Enough is enough!!
You mean Trump bullied Zelinsky on national television? He talked to him like a child, no respect. And Vance just added to the fuel. This was not a discussion it was Trump telling Zelinsky what to do and say. Shameful.
​ @saulv960  this talk was for the public to hear. This is NOT the same conversation they're having behind closed doors. Be assured
Because Zelenskyy was clearly pandering and was turning the serious diplomacy discussion into a charade and a campaign speech
 @saulv960  You must have a jaded view of the world...This isn't high school anymore, this is how negotiations go in the real world. Zelensky starts by blaming everyone else of past diplomacy and Trump/JD merely ask for a little respect for us (USA) giving billions to support the war thus far. I have no problem with what went down. Zelensky should be thankful and sign the mineral deal already and be done with it. I don't respect Zelensky in the slightest, the clown globe trots asking for hand outs while is country is falling. He has zero leverage or time to waste.
 @Thats_my_opinion_so_chill  the whole thing that started this argument was a very legitimate question. What can we do to avoid Putin breaking the cease-fire and what will be the response?  Trump and Vance acted childishly to this very real concern
 @saulv960  Let's see how far they get without us, I mean the U.S.
 @saulv960  Zelensky got a little to big for his britches. We don't have to do anymore.
Yes very good for Americans to watch Trump make himself look like a fool.
I feel ashamed to be an American after what I just seen here. FML
It's wrong how they are talking to him. What goes around comes around. This man is asking for help.
He will loose his country. He should submit to a deal  if any of his country is to be saved. Sometimes reality isnt fair.
The best country in the world right..?! Jesus, what behaviour from the USA side... Even a child would do better.
Is there any American here to support this kind of behavior from Trump and his administration?
JD turned the whole vibe/aura of the conversation into a negative and contentious direction, and Trump is someone who is really really really influenced by the energy of others.
Looks like kids arguing with each other here. Zelensky was actually the calm one here.  Respect to him.
I think that how Trump and Vance treated Zalinsky might be the most disrespectful thing I have ever seen
Well Trump was right... this will make for great television. 😂 regardless of what people belive, I think it was shameful to treat a foreign leader this way. I think this should've been more of a closed door type of thing.
I hope the former presidents don’t feel embarrassed…. Like Trump is a baby and this is sad
It's not a shouting match... only one side starts yelling... the ones in suits/costumes
Close but not really.  Trump is a lame duck and can never run again.  It is important to have us see Vance and who he is.  Hopefully his political future is now DOA.
U don’t air out ur dirty laundry in front of media
He Rather lose it entirely than submit like an American coward
The US is the best country in the world... and no we weren't acting childish during that meeting it was zelensky, have you even seen the video?
I wonder why, almost like he is the vice president of the United States
He tried to add a useless comment to be part of the mob. He was feeling emboldened.
@Aiden_core2 Oh please, we all know it's because Trump couldn't arrange daycare
Vance should have just kept his mouth shut!!! No value added.
 @factory8138  this is why people make fun of yt shorts kids
And that is the issue, we pay tax money, we should have the right to access and see what our President is doing. This is phenomenal.
I'm sure they feel embarrassment man. It makes my gripes with Bush and others seem like nothing in comparison
Putin went through a lot with me  :)  tells you everything you need to know about Trump allegiances...
Looks like Macron and Starmer visiting Trump earlier this week has very productive. 😂
I think Trump did this in a professional manner , he is putting the people first, united states as he should as a president of the United States, and if we got war , then will handle our own, but the conflict if United States helps Ukraine is already a problem with Putin , so the breaking of this conflict is good, and bad for those who live there, the focus here is handling our own. I like how he handled that and Zelensky , I think just needs time to think about what he will do,  he can't win though, so he needs to play his cards right.
He’s not wrong, in a deal both parties have to be willing to negotiate or compromise. We gave Ukraine 120 BILLION
Trump acts like a 2 yr old if he doesn’t get his way he goes off 😂
3:17 This is where it goes pearshaped.  Zelensky politely but firmly points out to Vance there HAS been diplomacy but Putin has defied it.  Vance gets all butthurt and tries to belittle Zelensky and demand respect.  Zelensky points out that the USA may feel the effects of the invasion.  Trump now gets butthurt and instead of being an adult gets more and more wound up.  The argument was nothing to do with a difference in policy, it was Trump and Vance being defied and having a tantrum
I love this form of media.  Dialog in front if the media not behind closes doors.
How is an 11 minute clip the full video? The meeting was about an hour long. This is 11 minutes. This is not the full video.
Who is this guy talking a lot on the right?! He gives off that arrogant  teacher's pet vibe. Annoying haha
JD started this whole thing!! He got on an ego trip and then Trump defended JD. Showing the whole video shows a lot.
Absolutely shocking that her mum said that she wishes her daughter died instead of the brother…she’s not a nightmare teenager she’s hurt.
Those parents were resisting the urge to hit the British kids when they were getting all up in their faces. They absolutely hit their kids
They always pull out the "you don't respect me, I wont respect you" sort of line, when what they actually mean is "if you don't respect me as an authority, I wont respect you as a human being."
That girl is grieving and grief can do all kinds of damage.  But these parents are tough but they give praise and compassion towards those kids that's what  changed them
"Don't worry I'm not gonna bum in your house"  Class one liner and the looking their faces haha
Complaining about the drinking, whilst drinking a glass of wine 💀 😂
Someone tell those parents there is a fine line between being strict and being intrusive 😭
“ she wishes that I had died instead of Jamie”……………………………….. dude………… the amount of emotional, physical, mental trauma that this child is experiencing because of those words is absolutely making her act out. I feel so bad for her and my heart bleeds for this beautiful baby.
At first I couldn't stand the girl, then I watched what her parents told her. Her parents should be ashamed, this poor girl suffered not one loss, but three.
i absolutely lost it when he lit a cig with the matches omg that’s gold
Nah them bringing up his dad then gaslighting him into thinking hes crazy for feeling triggered by that is insane work
It makes sense for someone to go cool off when they're mad. They brought up his father. It was obvious he'd get mad.
Those parents are a nightmare, how dare they bully those poor kids, their own included. This isn't strict, this is pushing religious beliefs, discrimination straight from the offset.
36:26 I understand why he didn't like that she called the man "his dad." The child grew up without a dad. He doesn't have a dad. So her saying "your dad." In my opinion is horrible.why would you even bring up the subject of his dad around him.
"Do you know what an idol is?"  "Like an american idol?"
You are right that mother was wrong to say whished she had died 😢😢😢😢 that kind of thing hurts my heart
Saying that to your own child is unforgivable. It's the most cruel thing anyone could hear from a so called parent. No wonder she has rebelled. That is such a damaging thing to say. I hope the young girl finds peace and love from someone because obviously her parents are beyond unfit to raise a child.
yeh, the mother brought her up, its her fault the girl is acting this way
On this show it's almost always the parents it's rarely ever the kids. Bex just seems to need a hug and for someone to believe in her
For real, lots of crazy behavior in this episode. Especially the mistress pinching her repeatedly??
Exactly I see why she would rebel like that and turn this way she is hurt and misses her brother very much and sad her parents said that to her
no wonder why she drinks and smoke bc that would traumatize me a lot ngl bad parenting
I would act the same way if my parents said that to me the mom should realize that it is her fault why she asks the way she dose
I personally think that too, she seemed traumatized from her life, and she was acting out. Also in the beginning the mother was just screaming at her, that’s no way to treat your child. I think the mom is blaming her daughter’s behavior on her daughter when she’s part of the problem.
 @Undefinedcreature394  no she's clearly acting out cause her brother died. Most teens act out if there's a death in the family, even parents themselves have become reckless alcoholics so what she's exhibiting is natural but her mom handled it horrendously so she's making it worse but obviously her mom would've prevented her brother from dying if she could, when there's an extreme disruption in the family things easily implode, especially when not dealt with like family counseling....also why are you ignoring the fathers existence and blaming only the mother? Weird af. Maybe you have mommy issues you're projecting onto her. Not everything is your mom's fault fyi especially now you're an adult.
7:20 yeah definitely. i feel bad for the kids. they seem pretty well adjusted. I hope they're doing ok.
Their kids are fine and loved. You have to remember that these parents had a hard life growing up and were probably spanked themselves. They choose to discipline like that cause it works.
@mistynightsatnoon  gentle parenting is for gentle kids. My sister didn't get spanked but I did cs I was being too much. At the time, I thought it was unfair but looking back i deserved it. I was hurting them more than they were hurting me.
 @alexxandra-  Funny how no study ever backs you up lmao. Is it only "gentle parenting" if you dont hit them? You can be stern and not hurt your children.
@ohno-do7fb  i think there are a lot of kids who don't deserve it and would instead benefit from being explained why their behavior is wrong. But there are some really wild kids who will not listen even after you've explained a million times & who only listen after being spanked. It is better for them to be disciplined in a way that works instead of running around society amuck with no respect to anybody but themselves.
Ikr , and the fact their own kids said that if they did that and got caught smoking they’d get KICKED OUT?? Like what.. those are your kids?
 @alexxandra-  There are good things about these parents for sure but that doesn't mean we ought to excuse the spanking or homophobia. We can acknowledge it is good these kids crossed paths with them without approving of everything they do.
​@alexxandra-  They do not choose it because it works, but because it works quicker. Look literally anything up about hitting children (of any variety) as discipline, and there are so many psychological and emotional affects that are negative. The positives of obedience can be gained by most other non-violent or authoritative parenting styles, however not necessarily on the first try but with consistency, especially with very young children because they are LEARNING. Hitting, and similarly volatile parenting methods like shouting (not shouting out of danger, or a firm if slightly raised voice, but *shouting*), only seem to "work better" because they cause immediate obedience as a fear response—this is a shallow view on parenting.  I can respect that this does not necessarily mean that these parents have malicious intent, and that at this time this info wasn't readily available. Still, kids shouldn't be hit period, and those who were deserved better.
​ @mistynightsatnoon hurt?? Come on!!! It Is one thing to hurt and another to speak firmly to them. That english teens are very disrespectful.
 @alexxandra-  you werent bein too much and you didnt "deserve" it. You were a child
 @sugalku  I don't think anyone in that house has a sense of freedom.
 @purrsuasively  well adjusted? lol she out drinking and partying at 17 and you say thats well adjusted?
​ @stars4areej  someones projecting, take it to a therapist man not youtube
 @Ilayj.  I just told him to chill. He is too young to understand.
while I agree parents shouldn't scream at their kid, you still need to discipline them and yelling is an intimidation and intimidation gets people to listen. You shouldn't have your kid fear you but they should fear consequences of their actions and you need some intimidation to do that
they did the 2 of them really good, like really really good
won't change them but discipline them, changing is difficult and takes time so that's why discipline and a person who keeps pushing u are important for development
 @MrBunnyBunn  Too late for me 🗿 Grew up scared of my dad. Thought it was normal to be scared of your dad until I met my friends :D I feel like my dad is a major factor as to why I got social anxiety around adult dudes.
 @nopenothintoseehere6300  Yea my step dad and biological father gave me a few scary times middle aged men now give me a little of the nervous system activation XD
thats very true. witnessed it with my young siblings and with my friends in their house when we were younger
 @MrBunnyBunn  This is the thought process of a weak adult. A weak adult who doesn't understand the scale and scope of consequences. Please, give us an example, ANY example, where you find it a valid "intimidation" tactic to yell. Please.
I do agree with that statement sometimes, this wasn't those times. You have to give respect to gain respect and this family did a good job at helping both teens. Both teens came out of this house feeling better than they went in.
 @sarahisabella1045  Not if they disrespect their parents. Discipline is required or the disrespect gets worse.
its even worse, they say my house my rules... but they cant go anywhere... they say; you need to respect me, whilst raising their voice and talking straight in their face, thats not respectable behaviour. the kid didnt have a dad and has someone say that this person is their dad now, says he doesnt like that, and you get that behavior in return. disgusting
they meant as long as they are in america the teens will not be allowed to smoke. meaning going on the balcony doesn't mean they can smoke, going outside or down the street doesn't mean they can smoke, going downtown or to another city doesn't mean they can smoke. not that its illegal to smoke in america
They were early investors of the Vape Pens and were trying to set the tone.
right? this whole experience would’ve been mental 😂 that’s one iconic bond and so funny to look back on as an adult
Life just doesn't work like that. They might have kept in touch for a year or so, but bonds based on something so negative and fleeting, rarely stand the test of time.
 @RyubearSaysGao i still have friends from the psych ward in middle school lol
LMAO they were being so weird about this kid's sexuality and for no reason. he kinda servedddd
Bruh! I would have laughed if he "awakened" something in one of the boys by the time they left.
 @mclovin3903  They do. The subject matter has escalated into discussing real thought processes though. You can make that discintion, can't you? No? Oh. Slow.
 @mclovin3903  Also, where was your joke? All you did was point out a contradiction? So using your same logic, why don't you understand their joke? XD
@kordei-7839but as the adult you have to set a model for your kids if you set a no drinking rule it should apply to the adults too
 @astrealala  That's not a swear word. I'm tired of 12 year olds acting like anyone saying "pissed off" is swearing, please grow up. No one else goes by that rule unless you are part of an even stricter parish than this lady, apparently. 😪
Same!!! That's absolutely devastating. It's been 15 years since this episode aired. I hope she has found healing and people who truly love and value her.
Yeah, so true. Both of the kids, boy and girl are both pretty misunderstood and misjudged and it's proved because they do end up doing really well in the end. The guy is really rude to his mum which is messed up to me, but I mean he acknowledges it at the end which shows both the kids really are good people inside. Some people just learn differently
I think she should've been sent to maybe a private school for idk grief counseling? Like teens who act up after a death? The way the parents couldn't handle her is evident. Usually I'd think a family being apart at that time is bad but they made it worse :/
Why do you want to run away from the presence of God
 @Manuela_Nimarko  remember its ok if some people dont believe what you believe, your relationship with God is for you to cherish, not for you to self righteously cast judgement on others.
Not me living Vicariously by saying my childhood dream happen on the screen! 🎉<3
As a non religious person I would do that, especially if it was being forced upon me. I have had that happen a couple times and literally stood up and walked out, sure I got scolded and grounded but it’s a belief and opinion on what you believe in, don’t tell others what to believe in
fr like bro have some empathy, it's a sensitive topic man
The series is called ‘world strictest parents’ for a reason. Stop crying
and it worked theyre mental health got so much better, if u were a parent u wldve been on 'worlds worst parents'
ye I think parents should let their kids do whatever they want, like in this series, because it breeds inteligence and not degeneracy, mental health issues, obnoxiousness, general failiur in life yknow
Aye, no one can resplace your parents even if you never knew them , they died at birth or whatever, your bio mom and bio dad are your mom and dad, and no one will ever be able to fill that spot for you/them , people have to accept the needs of a kid and the borders a kid need if they don't have em
Exactly. The dad crossed the line, then got mad at Chez for getting offended?? like....
 @Sweixx  just because they arent blood doesnt always mean they cant be family, i get what you are saying, but that shouldnt be true, if your parents arent around in any context, you should be allowed to let others into your life to fill that role
 @jadeross497 you’re right, but he had a right to be upset, he didn’t even know the man properly and the parents were annoying to him, it wasn’t right to bring up the topic of his father and that term would be heavy for him
I agree. And according to what he said she seemed to d it on purpose.
 @strwbyjam  and also called chez immature even though he was mature enough to not get into a fight and just calm down outside.
@jadeross497  that is true. However, you should want to do it, not be forced to do it.
i love Sister Patrice's patience and respectful communication with Bex. she spoke to (and about) her as an adult, with compassion and kindness. if i was in Bex' position that would really have touched me.
Honestly, Bex has horrible parents. Certainly can’t blame her for how she is, she’s had no support from her parents!
Being in a childs face that is not yours the way the man was is really to much. It teaches a youth that its ok for any adult in the u.s. to be treated with little boundaries. How does this set you up to be a strong and outgoing adult.
They're not nightmare teens, they're broken. All they needed was some love and respect
36:47 im confused. is it really that horrible for a teenager to tell you that he doesn't want to see you as his father due to the traumatizing absence of his real father?
Respect is earned, The teens don’t need to respect the parents straight away and the same thing with obedience, obedience is earned.
36:27 He probably has some unresolved issues around the term "dad" so I understand why he got so pissed
calling her a little child for running out from being sick because of the pig is crazy
You make your children treat you like a queen?? They're kids not your servants.
Shout out for that school professional (idk her title) for talking to them like a human being that knows compassion. ❤ Best part of this episode
icl tho it's insane to expect them to quit smoking the second they get there
The way Chaz shakes at all times….. who hurt this baby….
i genuinely think what bex parents said about wishing it was her that died is horrible. She is just hurt, that poem really said a lot. She’s just afraid and she’s scared, the Kimboroughs  are so sweet and you can tell they just want the best for them. I genuinely see the change, being in such a strong structured household does alot for them.
36:38 Calling himself his dad when he is clearly uncomfortable with that is so gross. I'd be livid.
36:48 that man is not being respectful towards chez KNOWING HE DOESNT HAVE A DAD
These kids were so iconic lmao loved chez’s emo style and his attitude. The parents were doing way too much in my opinion hearing how they discipline their own kids was already a red flag cause what do you mean you snoop through your child’s room all the time? Then when the kid said they would get KICKED out of their own parents home just for being caught smoking is insane.
Fr. Her mom tells her all the time she wished she ☠️ instead of her brother. Her mom pretended for 5 secs to apologize n then circled back in the letter. Like come ON!
they didn't say they were evil at any time...they said they were disobedient/disrespectful which is true.
Right??? I can understand doing this to your own kids but i feel like even if you have the permission, it's a bit odd? If you act like this with kids of another imagine how they act with their own
Some of y'all clearly have never experienced any hardship in your younger years. This is a great thing, it puts fear in you without putting you in any danger, this sets you up for life. Encountering that later on in life without ever having experienced that as a child is way more dangerous, it will make you a push over.
​​ @joopie46614 I think it could work out the opposite way, they could become a pushover because they turn into a people pleaser, bc they're afraid if they say no to anything they'll just get screamed at
If you noticed, they got in the kids faces when they were being stubbornly disrespectful. If they do that to the wrong person ANYWHERE, hands would be put on them. If you break rules in any establishment, cops will be called. I really dont see how they couldve parented such kids in a different way that would get them to listen. Gentle parenting is for gentle kids.
I mean the kids basically broke every rule at every single instance they could. How do you parent kids like them?
​ @scrumbole  it comes to a balance, too much of anything will lead to no good, there should be a balance between having a convo between your kids and yelling at them, having a convo with them should be at small inconvenients, but in bigger ones yelling is absolutely needed, for ex, if my kid is smoking and I try and talk with them how it's but but they just refuse to listen, you SHOULD yell, sometimes yelling can set the reality of the situation in their minds, I'm not saying you should always be shouting but you shouldn't be too lean on your kids, discipline is needed
reverence is earned. everyone deserves respect as a baseline because respect is basic decency
@CH-1060forEel agreed. Doesn't take much to have basic manors - also I didn't know the word 'reverence' so thanks for that.
 @howlinmadsmithy  no? he's worked for BBC and produced a bunch of short films.
 @lunalove9395  he just did a talk not any work with bbc and did a couple uni films/low budget trash. hardly famous or successful by any means.
 @linuxducky  I never said he was famous but at least he's doing something he enjoys. So many miserable, negative people in these comments.
 @lunalove9395  thank you for the nice comment despite the other replies. i find it lovely to hear he's doing something he can be happy doing! :)
​ @lunalove9395 that's amazing,good for him! I really like his character in this,I think he's very witty and intelligent,he has real personality 😊
37:19 and also him walking away from the situation cuz he knew he was getting angry and maybe gonna do something he might regret is actually a very mature way to deal with a situation like that
Exactly! Being a parent means constant sacrifices and unwavering love. Any parent that desires a royalty-like treatment from their kids is selfish and narcissistic. Ergo: they must be children themselves, and not even a decent child at that.
ikr it's a serious addiction and the withdrawals are real. I expected a different approach to this issue
 @adolfwigga they did? They snuck out onto the balcony, which is outside.
 @Kaufonme  the perfume spray was smart, until i saw they left the door open after.. gave it away..
 @sumerubazar625  I guess its all about perspective but I does make the children respect their elders and that's important. not to mention that they learn to take care of themself and others.
you can literally see their mental health getting so much better ??? and you want them to be smoking and getting in return bad mental health and physical health ??? ur gonna be the worst parent on god
@voidzmhmi see your point but thinking a kid shouldn't be kicked out of the house for smoking doesn't equal wanting them to smoke...
@uselessangel2010  a highly bad action leads to a highly bad consequence, how do you expect them to learn huh?
Seems like an intelligent kid too, just in the wrong place mentally
I feel like the cigarette thing isn't fair because they are addicted, they have physical dependence. It isn't just cuz they want to "be bad" when they are trying to smoke.
what Bex's parents said to her about their son is insidious and irreconcilable, she should've remained with the Kimboroughs, she fit right in at the school and it's a good environment.
Imagine saying that to your own child and expect them to respect you
"She makes sure that her kids treat her as a queen" I don't understand how this is going to make them good kids. Maybe better, but it doesn't show them proper obedience.
no but genuinely I totally get the pig thing... that's just way too much... I'd react the same way!! great episode!
what an absolutely insufferable and hostile community they have. its either bow to their unreasonably specific demands or be threatened and shamed. even the basic, reasonable requests of the teens were treated like they were crazy or unruly! it's not wild to ask someone to please respect your boundaries and not refer to some strange man as your father!
Expecting someone to give up smoking just like that is ridiculous .Tabacco is addictive and to ignore that fact is ridiculous. There are far more issues more important than smoking that need dealing with .
The pig scene is so unbelievable ?? Like bloody hell how are they being forced to dissect a poor dead animal
Seeing Bex’s mother, I can see why she acts out.  It’s not an excuse, but it’s sure an explanation.  Chesden’s Mom is pretty cool, but he seems to be very insecure in himself.  It shows in his obsession with his makeup and his hair.  He’s shallow, not showing his true self.
It’s just horrible to put these kids in this toxic environment. This doesn’t do anything or any good to them. They could have a good experience abroad with other role models, not these plastic drinking litterers abusive beings
I can’t be the only one who find Chezdan absolutely adorable
As a teenager from England, I was SO shocked how sweet people are in American school, or most. Since people in UK schools have horrid behaviour, they walk out, smoke/vape, and skip classes... and they'd have a goal to be rude to ANYBODY they possibly can, multiple fights, teacher vs. student arguments and exclusions
My mother wasn't as strict as these parents are but she was strict to a certain extent. You didn't talk back to her, you did what she said when she said it. There was no negotiating with her. But my mother was the nicest, sweatest woman to ever walk the Earth. Just don't cross her and don't step on her toes. She could out sass me anyday. I wished she were still here. She sadly passed away in 2015.
I love the way this family wants honesty but talks about being descret and keeping things private only if its embarrassment.
I love how the lady at the school really cares for her.
do you genuinely think that allowing an addict to smoke bc "theyre addicted" is gonna help them stop?
@teodorbezdomny6326 it's not going to help them quit, that's for sure.
At least she apologised, not good at all the way she communicated
​ @zde4545  she couldnf even apologise without making it about her own grief again. non apology
Obedience should not be the desired behavior of children. The most successful and accomplished people in life are not obedient to their surroundings. The goal is a mutual respect, support in hardship, and the development of the kids' work ethic.
Yeah America is weird in school ur basically expected to cut up stuff like that from age 13 (it’s not really that bad for us since we’re used to it but I can see why British kids would think that stuff’s crazy)
@Carrie. Don't you think there were more important messages you could take from this episode. The kids actually feeling loved and respected and encouraged to go back and have better relationships with their parents? Smdh
Lol for real. And also they 17. Get over it addicting. What the parents supposed to set up a smoking section for them? Give them smoke breaks? 😂
it depends, i quit vaping by going cold turkey, and vaping is way more addictive than tobacco, because of all the flavours they market, freaking peach, pineapple, green apple, you name it they have it, quitting depends on if you are really strong enough mentally to do it, going cold turkey pays it's price because you will experience side effects quicker than quitting slowly, but it works 100%, i have been almost 4 months clean.
 @Mateusz_19996  if youre still smoking normal ciggys, quitting vaping actually isnt that hard. kicking the bucket entirely is harder.
It’s not ridiculous just give up , people use all this bollocks as excuses if you really want to quit you will
I would have used it as an opportunity to try and quit. I know its hard, I gave up for 2 years then started again. They need something positive to replace it.
​@Mateusz_19996 100% untrue, the flavours aren't the addictive part of vapes, it's nicotine, the same thing that is in cigarettes...
​ @harrymillen3158 true... but they didn't want to quit so this is completely invalid
​ @Shadow_Boa This is also true. You have to want to quit. I quit 3 yrs ago and I truly 100% wanted to quit.  But life changes and stresses caused me to give in & start smoking again this past year - I tried two or three times to quit recently but I never truly wanted to, so I haven't been able to yet.   The positive thing is, I have done it successfully before, so I know when I'm ready that I'll be able to.
When my grandad died from lung cancer caused by his smoking my aunt quit on the same day. Litterally quit. went straight up cold turkey after smoking every day for decades. she had withdrawal sure but she powered through like an absolute beast. I got soo much respect for her sheer amount of willpower..
I think thats common in America. In American cartoons they always had to dissect a frog or smth lol
 @bloemkoolendestreetgang450 yeah i dissected squids in elementary and a cow eyeball lol
The intimidation was just not working on her because she gets that in her household all the time
they may be overly religious and have beliefs that can conflict with others but they are overall respectful and only want the best for you and believe in good
😂😂😂waaaay more than those kids. I feel bad for their kids smh
 @prajiturel2902  They had kids just to treat them like slaves, that's deplorable. They are grossly judgmental but ironically never judge themselves. They are bad people.
Im a straight guy but the dude is charming as hell in a way
I was labelled “the weird girl” at a British high school and HOLY MOLY did it give me trauma. I just wanna say that school isn’t forever and it does get better. Even if it feels like it doesn’t it will your life is just beginning so don’t let high school define you.
you have to understand this was made years ago, i left school years ago but with what ive seen teens these days posting on socmed i cant imagine its any better, and back in my day we didnt have vapes 😭😭😭😭
Well it is a private school so I assume their equivalent of normal schools is similar
This is a long time ago schools is the us nowadays are ruthless
@PabloPugs23it’s not bro i jst graduated hs and even when we graduated we smoked up in the restroom
The best episode ever! ❤️ I was so on Bex and Chezden’s side all the way through. I remember when it first aired, it made me laugh so much. The American’s are mental.
Getting in their face trying to intimidate them is not the way to go. Yucky behaviour
i cant even begin to explain how unnecessary  it was for them to bring up his dead dad, plus they got mad at him for him being upset about it ?
Would be so awesome if this series did follow up stories- with these kids.
Why did they bring up his dad and then thought he wouldn’t be angry/sad
Wondering how jo frost feels about these two parents. They clearly need healing. You demand respect while being disrespectful.
That girl's parents don't seem compassionate at all. The letter was horrid.
What kind of mother says that to her child.  That will stay with her forever.  Be careful what u say to your children as it can hunt them for life ❤
Just never understand why these 'pastors' need to live in such gratuitously large houses...it seems like more of a private enterprise at the end of the day.
I truly believe that screaming at children or just anyone won't change them. Changing someone requires a lot of patience, time and understanding. It's not something that happens overnight. I mean when I heard Bex say "she wishes that I had died instead of Jamie." it was honestly heartbreaking because she felt that way due to the lack of validity to her own feelings. I feel like she adapted the mindset that "If no one understands me, then I might as well be not understandable."
You stay strict with your kid this way and you dont raise outgoing children just followers in fear of messing up.
and you would do what? Ask them politely to stop breaking every rule put to them?
 @ericsonofjohn9384 trust me from personal experience trying to intimidate will NEVER work. It definitely didn’t work for me, didn’t work with my friends and their parents. It is also proven it doesn’t work by many physiologists.
 @ericsonofjohn9384  did i say that? NO I’m just saying getting in there face trying to intimate them is wrong! Do that to kids these days & you’ll definitely get struck at.
You say that, but the evidence is against what you're saying
 @ericsonofjohn9384  you have to show respect first before you can expect respect back, i remember in high school i was just in a fight and a teacher was trying to talk to me however he was talking softly and not just immediately attacking me he was trying to LISTEN rather than scold, and so from that tiny experience i still remember and respect him to this day, you cant just expect respect if you dont first show it...
 @JOSHI.CC0  just seems an odd thing to monetise to that extent?
why would being related to church change your right to owning a large house??
Fair play to them that looked absolutely horrid to sit through lmao
That sure didn’t happen to us!  Our parents were very strict and nobody ever described us as followers in fear of messing up!
@drenatucker2036 Well said, without the expression of genuine love the kids will have no love of anything in life. No passions, no burning desire to change their community or the world. Just drifting and wondering why they did not actualize. Of course it is more complex than that, however for every young addict there is a unfeeling and uncaring family environment around them.
37:02 ‘i don’t care what you want’ he’s literally asking them to not refer to david as ‘dad’ because it’s uncomfortable due to his own past, that’s NOT okay
these children obviously need MENTAL HEALTH not loads of rules. this is NOT how you parent.
seeing there faces light up by the end was so refreshing to see, it obviously was really hard and the struggle was evident but just watching their mental state grow and become stronger was so amazing. Also watching the mother expand her knowledge and letting other ideas into her life towards the end was really interesting, she realized how much of a good kid Chez was and noticed she was judging him by first thoughts based on ignorance. This episode was really something
I get the basic idea of what he was going for at 38:30 he wants to see obedience and by walking away the child isn't capitulating the way that he wants them to, but he is just wrong on this. There was a situation in which tempers where flaring up and things were getting heated, in that situation being prepared to walk away and cool off is actually the mature and adult way to handle things  rather than continue to escalate it to a point of open conflict.  You can argue as to wether this is good parenting or not but it's a rare example in the show where the villain of the situation is ambiguous
But the thing is cigarettes are addictive and you can't just expect someone to go cold turkey
15:53 the way the dude was talking to chez and got closer to his face and the tone... oh boy that would've done the deal for me.... ima just crash out 'cause nah what the heck
The kindness and empathy they showed those kids had me in tears. I'm glad that they're making an effort to let themselves heal
The parents weren’t good but the head teacher sister Patrice was amazing
There’s no way she tried to tell her that she didn’t know what she wanted to be at 17, and then pushed the narrative that she should do something she clearly didn’t wanna do.   I’m not in any way 100% agreeing with the teens actions here solely because they act unruly and you can see it, and excusing their behavior to the household and their guardians would be unfair to the people who had to put up with them, but in some scenarios here, I would’ve been upset too. And I’m sure a majority of people here would agree or are in the same age range to see the perspective.
the way these parents try so hard to get these kids in shape but they do it so terribly.
This was may more wholesome than I thought it would be
Teaching your kids that someone else has authority over them, that their privacy isn't theirs but yours and the fact they can't express themselves authentically is teaching kids unhealthy boundaries. This will be a struggle in relationships for them later in life
I personally, completely disagree. The boy has clearly never had any true confrontation in his life which means he feels like he can get away with anything he pleases. By not backing down the father taught him a lesson he didn’t know he needed. This is how it’s done and this is how you gain respect.. walking away isn’t the mature thing to do with these kind of kids it shows weakness.
​ @SamDaMan101  I just want to say, it wasn't the boys father
​ @SamDaMan101   Someone being arrogantly disrespectful in your fact about your missing father and is not changing their opinion.  What exactly is your plan? Argue until veins pop? You going to be calm as a cucumber?
 @SamDaMan101    your original comment shows analytical issues as well, sounds like the problem there
LITTERALY i feel like the show was trying tot make the Teens look so bad but most pol would act simelarly în their shoes
I agree.  A teen with a serious addiction needs to be in some kind of rehab first, not just going to a foreign culture in another home with strangers expected to go cold turkey as well!
Smoked 20 years, went cold turkey, am surrounded with smokers and smoking habits and I never needed to go back.. so it's individual I'd say
yeah the teens are only acting out bc they're clearly going through some stuff tbh, and it's not exactly handled in the best way in this episode
and the way they get all up i the kids face too is absolutely so weird. I just couldn’t imagine having to sit there and take them getting in your face like this even id lose it.
When you're young, the cool and loving parents were the ones that allowed their children to do anything. When you grow older, you realize those kinds of parents did not indeed care as much. You start to appreciate the caring and dedicated work your parents put to raising you up with boundaries, self-regulation and decent behavior. Even when it's gentle parenting, there is a difference between not parenting at all and disciplining your child in gentle, constructive ways.
Nicotine is addictive. I think that this family could have bought these kids some nicorette gum or something to help them not to smoke. I'm a Christian. I would have been more gracious and less tyrannical acting.
they are so oblivious as to why chez doesnt want them referring to themselves as his mum and dad (especially dad) because he never had one and it is obviously a sore spot for him.
really wonder where these two are now. would be wild to see. wonder if they are still friends as well.
To be honest I liked the teacher because she really tried to be understanding and kind to her and gave her a chance
31:15  shes explaining it calmy and the teacher should accept the situation she was in and i knkw the teacher was kinda persuading her but i mean still
probably this would be my favourite strict parents episode, the british kids are so hilarious and iconic duo , i wonder what they're doing now !!!
You can tell Mum's most exciting day at church in the past twenty years was chasing two teenagers in the rain! Mum appreciated that day & having the cameras focused on her so much, it's been confirmed she Covets this very moment at worship weekly!
As soon as it emerged that the parents had told her that they wished she had died instead of her poor brother my sympathies for her parents went completely out of the window.
Sister Patrice is a lovely woman, she was so great throughout & was the one ray of adult sunshine in this whole thing. Most of the adults are insufferable.
this is so heartwarming and while the Kimbrough's were unfair at points, the change they made was incredible. I'd eant to stay with them and stay at that school if I was Bex.
those teens are what i imagined my teen years to look like
totally normal to have a literal contract about who's the boss of the house and read it out like you're some kind of lawyer
the teen who loves his hair is so me and ITS FREAKING FUNNY
The way the father expected Chez not to react when he was called his dad knowing Chez grew up with no male figure
I agree that a parent has the power to demand respect and practice discipline but a child can see right thru the hypocrisy. It's a two-way street if you want their trust.
 @katray7452  Yeah I agree, I think it only really works if the parents can act as examples themselves, to what they're trying to teach. Someone can try to teach their children to better ways than themselves but keep the standards reasonable. Excessive power dynamics to favor the parents don't usually set the child for the real world either. Then they're just unable to defend themselves in important situations. So it's kind of the other end to not setting any boundaries.
Yeah, I get that they didn't want them smoking or anything, but giving them a nicotine patch is actually the nicest thing you can do for someone who's addicted to cigarettes.
but you are going into someone's home it's disrespectful u are telling me they can't stop for a week
@JOSHI.CC0  From what I understand, it's very hard to quit nicotine cold turkey. A nicotine patch would be helpful and wouldn't be disrespectful, in my opinion. Bless you.
 @sheilaregal2566  bless your heart, your wisdom shines as bright as your compassion.
Seems like the dude is doing good these days. Not sure about the girl though
I believe the boy is doing quite well, he has turned his life around and has gotten into filming!
Them running away from the church to smoke sent me to mars lmao 😂😂😂
Imagine looking like they two and acting like they are above everyone and everything haha
I couldn't imagine how bad it would be to lose a sibling
They are the worst parents i have ever come across.... Especially the mother l...
oh my god this was honestly maddening (very entertaining though). i feel like chez and bex didn't deserve the harsh treatment, they clearly both have trauma and not the best home lives. i mean what bex's mom said to her was CRAZY. their actions were very understandable. and the Kimboroughs are definitely very extreme and crazy. i don't think they didn't want the best for them, they definitely geniunely cared for them, but their methods are very extreme. it was nice to see the change by the end, but was the proccess worth it? they need therapy more than strict parents to fix them.
the mother is the most judgemental horrible bully ever, i feel sorry for her kids
If you can't wait to be sick, you should just leave the room. There should be some understanding there.
Bex is an accomplished Showjumper and produces horses , she also hosts a podcast to do with this  Class they both did well for themselves
If they had vapes during this time they would be able to get away with it so easily😭
32:37 it’s insane to me how reflected bex is after the talk with the teacher, she wanted to knock her out an hour ago and now she participates in class and talks about respect 💀💀
Nah the constant trying to imply the "dad" thing is just wild
its so funny how they frame altanta, like its 18th century virginia
Bawling my eyes out at all the various histories and themes of existence contained in this... how people can be made or broken by their past.
really i found chez account but not bexx...... can u share :)
bro the girl literally said she would knock out the teacher if she could. These kids are completely unhinged, i get that the american parents may seem extreme, but it's only tough love. Smoking at 17 is crazy... The teenagers need serious help, they can't even have a bit of respect for their peers...
 @kylezdeath  bruh she grabbed her arm cus she was being hysterical asf throwing a fit n shi.
 @SoloLEVELR  the only way you can get someone to listen to you is to treat them with respect, if i try talking to you and explaining what i believe what is more likely to get you to listen to me? anger or mutual respect?
@ not if you talk to children who have been spoiled their entire lives and had no discipline. The parents were literally not very strict at first, they only became strict once the kids started lying to them and sneaking away to smoke.
@ you simply cannot respect someone who wont respect you, that lady has no respect for addictions…
 @sirspongadoodle  everyone is different, there is no one fit suits all.
@ exactly which is why the parents should be more careful of the brute force approach...
“Bex and boy she’s a dog on heat” so you basically just called your own daughter a slag nice 1 mum 😂
the american parents need help they obviously overstepped boundaries and when you are addicted you can’t just stop  - 37:29 crazy, that wasn’t immature instead of fighting back he went outside like they are acting as if mentioning a father he never knew would make him happy
when she said her mum wished it was her who died instead of her brother🥺🥺
Shows like these always make me remember how much I love my parents  They were strict sometimes, only when it was really needed, but most of the time I was free to do whatever I wanted and they were always supportive without setting up a contract and a thousand rules lol - And I turned out not too bad I'd say  Of course I was difficult sometimes, almost every pubescent teenager is. That's just part of the process. They will grow out of it if you offer your support while being understanding, and don't create distance by being too strict and unreflected.  Wouldn't surprise me if the boys in this family leave home for college and never come back
Watching this child ab*se is straight up terrifying. How the hell haven’t they been arrested?
as a christian teenager who is not rebellious these parents are DENSE
im willing to bet my life that camera man is the sanest person there
Nah if the camera wasn’t there they wouldn’t be cooked 😂
God those parents are disgusting, i feel bad for the kids they're not even that bad honestly.
i love how these parents ar always worse than the children
Anyone else just click this vid cause golf the cute Emo
At first I didn’t watch the beginning of the video and thought they would have to live there now. . It’s nice they don’t have to so they don’t get damaged too much.  I have a lot of sympathy for them, especially the guy.
the americans are just terrible parents, this did nothing but prove the kids right
im glad they called the boys mum back home. the boy i can tell hes a good person <3 he just needs some help
Its like going to rehab or checking into a mental health facility and then being put back in with the caos you need long term help for such a long journey through trauma.
Trauma of each individual being should have its own individual saving
lmao James already running away to smoke in the first 4 seconds💀💀
id say criticising is a better word but yes its good to see people stick up for the kids since unfortunately its so common for people to automatically look down upon children with any sort of "attitude" without trying to look for the root of the problem...
It is so. Maybe the guy had it easier, but the girl didn't look like she had much hope afterwards...
If peope dont have a good foundation from a start its not helpful to be drilled into someone elses expectation of a fundementally healthy lifestyle or upbringing. You need to nurture and love someone into the understanding of whom they can be so they can step away from how they've been programed into becoming. The teacher is basically acting like a drill sergeant sounding more like a person who needs to have control because they have failed to heal their own wound or wounds.
Im from england and you come in here and theres a pig on the table and i just needed to get some fresh air 😂😂
You feel sorry for the UK? We feel sorry for you behaving like a cartoon character on stage 😂
idk why this makes me want to be an emo british teen in the early 2000's it seems so fun lol
What kind of school is that.... abuisive when somwone is having some anxiety
They took away becks cuntynesssssss ughhhhh(no but if she’s going better goof for her i love you two ahhhhhh)
I remember watching this when it first aired in 2009, I really want to know how Chaz and Becks are doing nowadays and how this experience shaped them.
I love this family ❤ this is how we were raised
I don't believe the family they sent them too were good, they forced them to go to church, some people have different beliefs, they were always in their faces, referring to them as their children is just wrong, they have their family and it obviously angered chez for that man to be referred as his dad when he doesn't have one. I just don't believe that was the best family to send them too.
The headmistress lady is my GOAT. All the other adults were questionable
Bex was the way she was because of her parents. her parents should’ve experienced this, not her. poor girl…
Literally the girl was right for telling her to stop touching and pinching her
29:00 oh, so, she also needs to ask for permission to feel sick, that's their idea of discipline?
By the end you start to see the compassionate parts as they become vulnerable through the story of their youths and how they were fortunate to have the rightbinfluences guide them to their confidence as an adult. Its all truly about the surroundings. These kids needed to see most how they are in control of their surroundings and they had to gain the confidence they never understood. I loved seeing the truth fall together.😊
@9:15 they live in a detached home in a nice looking suburb but drink from frat house red cups? What?
these kids r hurting, and the fact tht these ppl r getting in their personal space n stuff is just messed up, theres no way this show is real
It's astounding what good parents can do in just ONE week. Millions of kids are growing up hurt, angry and destructive because their parents aren't giving them the time and love they need.
Her parents should not have said that to her about brother. Parents should not have told her that she should not have told her that she should have died not her brother that wrong for her parents to say to her.
These parents are not just strict.. they are religious freaks and act like military drill sergeants to their own children. Your parents should be your friends as well.. how could these kids ever feel safe and at ease with these terrifying parents
Bet all the teenagers are now in their 30's 40's and parents themselves !!!!
sister patrice says that little kids run out of classrooms and proceeds to pinch bex
sorry but like... these children are trying to set boundaries of their own but the adults are just like... NU-UH your boundaries dont matter! only mine; fkin both acting like children...
At least young fella takes care off his looks nothing wrong with that ❤
no, no. sometimes the kids have good reasons to have an outrage. like the girl leaving when there dissecting unborn pigs, i personally wouldn't want to do that so she has a point. same with the guy getting mad about the dad being referred to as his dad. its a sensitive topic for him and i feel him leaving was the best choice of action.
im so glad my parent were never like strict in this way. this family is so focused on how they look rather than making sure the kids are having a happy healthy life experience.
7:22 Damn. Kicking your kid out for that? As a Christian myself I expected more from the parents.
Bro, what is up with these correctional officers. The kids are low key more mature than the adults…. “STOP SMOKING TODAY!”
exactly when the kids arent being listened to then how come the parents expect the kids to listen to them?? even as a kid my parents would usually atleast LISTEN they may disagree but they atleast listened to what i had to say and because of that i listened to them...
I can not imagine not being raised in the south, the amount of times they have been disrespectful in southern eye is absolutely crazy
Since when is walking away from a situation that Ur getting angry in childish... If anything that's top tier maturity... Like he walked away cuz he didn't wanna lash out... AND THATS CHILDISH? right yea okay makes sense...
Her parents saying they wish it was her that died is so disgusting and devastating And I cant believe they're aware that she acts that way because of the death of her brother nd still said that to her Cruel + Evil + id never speak to them again - You can have 2 dead kids mate
the littlebigplanet song at the end out me off so hard🤣
This is so inspirational and I'm not religious. I love the kindness, pariahs love they showed these British kids. Period. I also admire Mama Wanda for admitting her ignorance twds LGBTQ. Just lovely to see that skin color, nationality and cultures mingling with mutual respect is achievable.  🙏💙💙
'We've tried absolutely everything with Becks. Punishing...Yeah that's about it, isn't it?'
Found them both online and they seem to be doing well now.
Am I the only one who watches this show when I need an outfit inspo ??
personally i don’t care if kids disrespect adults when they severely disrespectful the children and don’t see anything wrong or don’t wrong there right. otherwise its js misbehaved children
Need to see the update of these youths thats the only way to know if all this really worked or if it is a show thats being pushed in a certain direction before the close of episode.
Well you clearly have a great ability to ignore all the negative red flags being thrown out by the bellends
Obviously hes going to be upset if you refer to yourself as the kids dad when the boys dad died
idk man.. these guys seem to raise their kids through fear and thats not right at all... ik it comes from good intention but wow. These kids are gonna switch one day and it won't be nice.
those american parents were teetering on the line of abusive. i'm not saying they were abusive to avoid getting called overdramatic but they def seemed abusive
I’m glad the mom realized her homophobia. I just wonder if she told it to the boy because in the video you just saw him go in the closet again, mainly when he spoke in class. 🥲
The kids may have behavioral issues but they're not making it any better. They don't treat these kids like human beings.
"all you have to do is sit here and listen"  that kid knows
I actually used to act the way these teens act, moved it to my early twenties,  its all fun and games until you run out of money, nobody likes or wants anything to do with you. Learn from me
I think a big thing is that in the end they both learn from eachother, yk? The kids see a different way of life and same with the adults, and I think that’s very important to understand and get to know the other person’s side, even if they don’t completely understand I bet they all somehow changed eachother.
my god this looks tame compared to the teens that are around now. parents still the same for the most part except the teens in this video are now the parents.
I think it's so 'funny' and sad at the same time that some parents try to convince the world that it is not their fault😂😂😂
Did she just say “to intelligently express?” Surely she meant “to express, intelligently…”
Nah bc shes not a bad kid shes just hurt and chez is just trying to live a life.
like, son - "yo mom, coul u please pass me a boa'owh'woa?" mom - "no mae"
why do they always get so close into their faces?? do they know what personal space is?
i could say that in a healty reletionship both of the persons needs to respect one of other , in the family that the 2 british kids got  there is no respect for the kids
all those people complaining about the parents, did y'all watch it till the end? cause it doesn't look so
Bro when she left when they where doing them pigs I felt sick too
They walked out to calm off after being yelled and then they're told they had a temper tantrum and walked out like children and that they have to apologise. Its just horrible, they're like 16-17. Respect goes both ways, and honestly idk what the parents expect if they treat teens who are almost adults like little kids. It's dehumanising. Would they rather Chezdan lash out? It's good he has ways to emotionally regulate. Not being able to do that is just damaging. They're treated like they're in a prizon. The parents demand absolute obedience meanwhile giving no respect.
glenn’s vodka in a random field aye i loved my teen years 😂😂😂😂
The attention is always put on the failure students rather then the intelligent smart ones
How did the teachers, expect the English teenagers to react, to the biology class when the pig was put in frount of them  i dont know if her reaction to seeing the pig , was extreme, she tried to explain why she did not want to do it and left   what else could she have done?
It feels like a lot was left out? Like why didn't they show more of their home life at the end and where was Chez's poem?
Why are the parents saying that they‘re minor so they have to obey but then hold a contract against them that they signed by force as minors?
Then used bipolar and split personality expecting everyone to really be just like them or not acceptable.
@ it’s the cheapest vodka lol you can find it in any corner shop i used to get it for £4 at the one near my house 😭😭😭
Exactly, I agree, we don't do dissection in science in the UK. It shouldn't of been forced on them, they could've just watched if it made them feel ill, it was unfair they were expected to do that.
 @tombombadil2049  I hope it wasn’t too bad for you. I went to a privately paid school and we didn’t do it there. I don’t know of any state schools that would do it. Not sure about now though, I left school in 2008 🙂
 @becky1992  I went to a public school and it was only a few years ago
​ @becky1992 In state schools we do briefly but not as much as in the US I'd say
Pull the teacher aside and explain that she wasn't comfortable doing it, the point was that instead of her having the conversation she just got up and left.  As she was told, the teacher is fair and if it made her uncomfortable then she could have sat it out.
@MrJonboy  ok maybe that would have been the more mature thing to do  But I think in the moment, she was shocked, at what she was being asked to do, she was a teenager and reacted as a teenager would in that situation  Plus why try so hard to force her to take part in the lesson? She could have been sent to join another class for that hour, once she had explained why she didn't want to take part in that lesson  She is only at the school for a few days , so does it really matter what she study's while she is there?
Because of time limitations and the fact reality tv is concentrated into the most dramatic moments
“You are gonna give me the matches.” *boss music starts playing*
29:58  she shouldnt really touch her though and pinch her
The thing i don't get is how is those house contracts legal?
The parent's didnt think this shitshow would help their kids. Merely did it for a hefty fee snd the chance to watch their teenage son/daughter suffer a little.  Never underestimate, how much the general populace hates teens. It is why shows like this one existed at all.
For those unaware of UK towns, she's from Walton on Thames which is a nice area (even though she lives in a council flat). The area is part of one of the most expensive counties in the UK - Surrey. What classes as poor behaviour there is quite a low bar.
That girl’s mum is horrible no wonder her daughter behaves that way
It’s so weird watching this because I literally live in the area the bex did
Now I see what’s wrong with comment section.. these kids came out better and was taught discipline and respect.
I dont know what about you guys, but i feel sad for Chez It's pity to see him in that situation, idk...just.. i was scared for those teens
At first I thought that this is just another random bbc program but to my suprise there is a lot of people and their atitiudes that are nice to see and think about. In my opinion those "strict parents" from UK crossed a line a few times....mentioning someones father who left at young age is deffinitly not a good idea.... touching without a consent is also a problem I think with those parents well not only parents... this teacher also crossed a line and it really made Bex mad. But what I really liked about this video is that those teens were shown a different reality and apportunities to change for the better. There was a lot of lessons but care and attention as well that made them rethink how they treat their real parents. Thas was an interesting material
honestly its from 15 years ago this was basically the norm
If I remember right, there was a clip of this ep going around on tiktok, so that's where you might've seen it, idk tho🤷
"If she didn't have God, can you imagine what she'd be like?" LOL
Sorry but if the guardians dont repect them how will the children know to repect them. You need to be the role model so they can learn of you. It really annoys me how they think they are better than them just because they have morals and they are older. Plus the fact they yell... it aint intimidating or changing them alls it is doing is making their relationship worse between eachother and they will learn of you to yell so if anything you are making them worse!!!
I say the strictest it will take the more your kids will disrespect you more
Beautiful people. Why did they stop this show? It's a beautiful experience regardless of it sticking or not. It's a walk they will never forget and it seems to primarily work ❤
the portrait like shot of the kimbros they all look like they are trying not to cry
Hurt kids lash out n r AH. The fact that her mom says that and her letter says that too! Omg. I really wished that mama kimbro was there to hear that. The "father" gettin in his face bc hes not his dad, is too much. He just stepped out to calm down, which is the right choice.
so, they are being forced to believe in and respect god? so yeah no LMAO
Parenting these days is misunderstood, either there is no boundaries and basically 2% respect, or the parents basically controls their child and their feelings are invisible
I almost cried at 52:21 !! Brings me great joy to see more seeds being planted in Heaven
this is not strict parenting, this is toxic and abusive parenting
If they were in India it would have to be Vishnu 🤣. Soo many Gods to choose from … depending on where you were born.
The teacher had no right to touch her or pinch her tbh😭
33:23 was not expecting DLZ by TV On The Radio to start playing
Both families had issues, but those strict ones were something else yikess
Their not nightmare teenagers, their just misunderstood kids who never got closure:(
This was lovely and positive because they all got real with each other. The couple showed respect toward the teens. The love of God touched the young people's hearts. Wonderful!
Ok but no joke these parents are pretty good. Own a church, run a school. Just a little strict. No problem with that.
Im all up for strict parenting, but you need to be fair. 100% strict parenting has negative effects
I actually wasn't a bad kid. This is insane behaviour.. insane. I grew up in the hood if you behave  in this manner you be found dead.
the begining was hilarious and the end made me lowk cry
HOW CAN THE KIN BRO FAMILY BE HIGHLY INTELLIGENT IF THEY WORSHIP OBAMA!😂
her mum is absolutely horrible, it’s not a surprise she acts the way she does
Chesden’s doing amazing! He’s a director now. Someone else covered this on the actual ‘Strict parents’ page this that helps.
This has got to be the worst programme ever.    I will not be viewing again.    Felt sorry for those two young adults who need good boundaries at home and not a “god” indoctrination that has past its sell by date 50 years ago
"im not gonna be a doctaah"  yeah we definitely already know this lol
i dont care how strict they are - you cant cut off nicotine like that - its not good for the body - as the body grow his own nicotine in a small amount - now they take it from outside - as ex smoker myself - its way better to cut little by little - then all in the same time - that way u are not coming back to that - more then that-   its shows that 80% of ppl who smoke e-ciggarete - will never go back to smoking - as alot of doctrots telling this day to move to e-cig - cuz its 95% more healty then normal ones - its still not good for you - but you can control the amount of nicotine u put in your body - and u can cut the amount be little each time  till u smoke it with 0 nicotine - then u are free
28:45  she does give a fair point and the teacher should necessarily grab her
I bet you the two older boys got it on 😂😂😂😂😁
Although the Kimbrough's are harsh with not just bex a chez, but with their own children BUT them respecting the teens apearances is honourable
Their gonna go back home without this exact line of support and have to put on a new show.
These strict parents are more broken and insecure than both of those kids
I'm sorry, but this strict mother is on a huge power trip while also being condensending and straight-up rude. So many unnecessary insults fly out of her mouth..
Exactly. Plus the fact that the American Dad kept making the boy refer to him as "dad" even tho he knows his real father is dead. I thought that was highly out of pocket and unnecessary.
 @stee8345 sorry quick correction, his real father left before he was born. Not dead. I do agree tho however that he should not be forced to call anyone Dad that is not his Dad.
Yes, the best way to get kids to discipline is by making them fight for a cause wholeheartedly, be it anything. Not some religious indoctrination for a non-existent false entity. A 'god' would never have enabled 'creation' at all because life and existence is nothing but sheer pain and suffering until the last breath.
Suffering was caused by sin. God didn't create the world this way.
it's disrespectful for someone to go into someone's home and smoke, start swearing. Just obey their rules and  that's it
The entire point of reality tv is to put people in confrontational and controversial situations. It makes 'good' television, look at the Jeremy Kyle show for example, or even shows like come dine with me that group people who are very obviously incompatible personality wise, it's all about drama and ridicule.
Considering this came out in like 2008 you’re many years too late. 🤣🤣🤣🤣
Bex got expelled from college, and fired from McDonald’s.  I hope she has straightened her life up.
The kids are right in the show they did nothing wrong its just their lives they normal teens
This is too extreme- they should of connected to them in the beginning and less drill Sargent
With the mom and bottles in her hand, what do you expect !!!
the way they behave in the church... that's very disrespectful not only to them but to the Lord...i really hope they have better self control now
These kids need to be in some kind of mental health facility and rehab. Really sad.
she so real im not dissecting a frog, baby pig OR EVEN A WORM HELL NAW
@10:55 the song here is Nouvelle Vague - Teenage Kicks, a really good song
I understand they were rude in someone else’s home. But how can you expect them to respect you when you can’t respect them? It doesn’t matter if you’re older or wiser. Everyone deserves respect no matter where they are. The dad thing was incredibly low and I think they are too stuck up to realize how ignorant their being.
The thing is that whatever these two did, the Christian family has to forgive them, or they go to hell so all is well.
"They smile and it's yes ma'am and they're so sweet" 25:00   Lady, the brit kids are like that. It's their culture to be polite in your face like Canadians do T_T T_T MA'AM, I thought your fam's intelligent wth happened?
i would feel bad for those people but they are brittish so wtv
I can‘t believe how disrespectful they are towards the parents. My God. They have never known the meaning of discipline.
Two times ✌️chez thought he was getting a handshake and got hugged
So many comments feel these parents were to hard. This is exactly what these teens needed   look at the change within a week.  Loved this one.
Contract says if you cant get it right you dont get paid😂 so kids obey. Wondering also how this is different from teen mom series when it comes to getting a pay check.
Ok but I would just walk out of the house and stay somewhere until the flight back home. I get they are trying to teach them respect and stuff but the dad is being patriarchal and the mum thinks shes everything. If I was to go on a show like this and they got up right in my face I wouldnt be having it and it's the same goes for them treat me with respect. And they should at least try and build a relationship with them and get to know them better so then they can figure out what method would work the best to teach them. Pmo sm
I feel bad for those kids like they are getting grabbed and everything
I feel so bad for them, god. I wanna be friends
Gez these kids need love not more people angry at them
im in the usa but i would of had a whole season dedicated to me if i saw this
That baptist preacher is insane. Folks like him just use God as a tool, enabling them to take the stage and receive praise in His stead.
they seem like they wouldve been so fun to be friends with also hes a MCR fan hell yeah
they didn't get paid to be on the show. they just paid for their flights to the country they were visiting.
I completely understand the reserves with yelling at a child like this but in most cases when done appropriately, it's needed to light that fire under them that life isn't going to hold their hand and you can't do whatever you want, especially as a minor. But I'm born and raised in the south so maybe I'm just use to it. My mom and I actually have a great relationship despite my teen years lol.
someone please explain why they use these frat party cups. I need to understand
😢 what if the child is slow you can’t be mean to that kid that would break my heart 😢😢😢😢😢😢😢😢😢😢😢😢
33:23 thats the problem. Thats why she became like that it was her parents
If these parents where actually Christian they would have been a place of healing for these kids and not give them more trauma
Low key why just reminds me of a foster parents like in CFS when I’m watching this video
no  them bringing up his dad that he doesn't know hit a nerve with me because excuse me hes not crazy or immature for being mad about that and it makes me mad how they handled that
Let’s just give it up to these parents because they are so well connected and in such great unity, this is literally the epitome of a beautiful relationship in God
Nah why does the second guy with the emo hair cut sound just like teenage David platt
same, when i was younger my parents were pretty unhinged, but i think it was good for me over all and wouldn't change anything.
Let’s just give it up to these parents because they are so well connected and in such great unity, this is literally the epitome of a beautiful relationship in God
1:35 He came out of his mum when he was 13??
I'm sorry you said she's 17 but she looks like she's 52
They are called strict for a reason so don't complain when they are all-over the kid's faces.
this just came up on my fyp but like... chez is cutie patootie tbh
how can you guys not tell that a lot of this is staged. that type of authority on kids like that doesn't work trust that poem was not written by bex
"in the US..." dumbest start for an argument ever... for real
Lol mr Kimberly or something has a really huge forehead lol
16:48 yeah in the UK if u meet someone they cool ur cool with them ur litgit best friends basically 20:03 me and my friend running out of lesson be like, they defo would if they were in skl tgher 29:37 emo kid is jsut trying not to laugh 😂
The boy became a pastor at an evangelical church, and the girl decided to become a pathologist in an attempt to overcome her fear of dissecting dead pigs..
See yeah now you wouldn’t be able to be in my face like that i’d have to move before i regret further action.
21:15 she should've let them stay out in the rain and cold weather 😂
Wanna get stoned? Do a cringe you smoke to this vid. I’m only at 19:28 and God DAMN.
it would be so cool if they caught up with these kids now
They should have sent a couple of choristers to balance up the impression they made.
I cannot believe the way the teacher was touching her. That teacher should be fired. That isn’t allowed in America. 🇺🇸
People who devote their lives to god, casting stones and judging others. So close to god dude
Wow, this family are an example to us all, God Bless you"
Those english boys are disrespectful. Many Here complain that foster parents hurt them... Really?? These kids believe that life owes when they are little chidren without respect or self love.
Do only I noticed that British girls in their 17's looks like at least 30 yo karens?
these are not bad kids their are just broken and hurt .......
Thank God we are Indian our parents are really respected here
that looks like that emo dude from insta thats always tweaking
I swear the first one is just a female Gordon Ramsay
Some of yall didn't watch until the end and it shows because these are the best parents the world could ask for
Bruuhhh why do o temmeber wayching this a long time ago lol
That gentleman sounds like my papa use to be strict but I respected that with all my heart but that young lass griefing over the lose of her brother 😢😢😢
Oh damn I thought they were siblings, I skipped the beginning of the video
How do you even let your son get like that, I get that she's a single mum but come on raise your kid better.
The people who are looking after them should not talk to the like a pice of dog poo. What if he had spoken to him like that he should not make fun off him not having a dad that's bullying  so if he spoke to him like a piece of dog poo it is herandec. That is absolutely rude I would  off said something horrible to them if they got in my face
how bright they became at the end so happy for them.
Why does Chez, a teen, have extreme hand tremors ??? He is so unhealthy I'm racking my mind what's making him tremor so obviously? There are 90 year olds who shake less! If he were 40+ I'd say early Parkinson's or Alzheimers which the UK is a hotspot for...but could it exhibit so young?
In jail you have to ask everything like to go to pee like to go to bathroom like to go out and the same in the school so this is not the school. This is a jail and this is a horrible that the teachers are touching. You get physical that’s ridiculous. I shouldsay that they should forbid that kind of schools. It should be a criminal to run that kind of school.
For some reason, I prefer the American parents to Bex’s parents. They sound absolutely horrible.
damn they sent their kids to ATL to trap and jugg that’s fire
There are many types of tremors, some being benign. He might just have an essential tremor when he’s under stress..
Yeah we get it mate, now stop swearing we don’t do that in this comment section 😊, it’s in the contract when you signed YouTube
In jail you have to ask everything like to go to pee like to go to bathroom like to go out and the same in the school so this is not the school. This is a jail and this is a horrible that the teachers are touching. You get physical that’s ridiculous. I shouldsay that they should forbid that kind of schools. It should be a criminal to run that kind of school.
So basically, they want kids to grow up in jail by forbidden everything. This is a horrible life horrible. I think it’s a shittiest family on the planet my gosh how can they treat people like that?
So basically, they want kids to grow up in jail by forbidden everything. This is a horrible life horrible. I think it’s a shittiest family on the planet my gosh how can they treat people like that?
Horrible parents. Pushing religious dogma on children. How about you use reason to talk to children instead of nonsense. I think that might help with these teens.
You gotta be 21 to use tobacco products in the US
I just wanna know how much $ Pastor James Brown’s congregation paid for that house, daaaayum!
Traumatized kids that need understanding.. yes in some ways structure is important they have to understand they are addicted to nicotine.. they should get them nicotine gum or something
These children need therapy not a new home its not gonna do anything there are still no conciquesnsies for their actions they need to feel it and stuff ya know? its just my opinion ya know
These programmes are entertaining because of the extremism Clearly, the intention is not for meeting in the middle  Rebellion vs religious spirit
​ @Sunnyy329 thank you, I'd already managed to find it after giving the back album a second shot, anyways thank you
they think they are connecting with them but the lady is just judging them they are meant to understand them above all things they are children they do not know any better than what the grew around (think about it)
there parents need therapy and the kids need proper parents, its unbelievable how anyone could see such horrible treatment and then side with the parents...
imagien if the program was trundered around like the teens are like the parnets and the the parents are like aboulute smackheads
WHAT DOES BEING IN THE AMERICA HAVE TO DO W SMOKING????? BRO ITS A FREE COUNTRY
Never thought I would tear up about this video😢this is just magical the wonders these people are doing
These parents are crazy i understand how chez feels abt his dad i dont see my mum so like i get it it would make me mad aswell
30:35 You don't want to be a doctor? TOO BAD. You WILL be a doctor.
Do you reckon the the strict parents would have voted for Trump or Kamala?
Trump because he’s Christian I think and he said “America is gods country”
THESE BEAUTIFUL PARENTS ARE AMAZING.  Imagine how great our world if parents cared as much about the kids as these parents.
If that was my mum I be doing everything for her your extremely lucky to have such a sweet kind understanding mum who really care and wants what's best for you this is how you treat her selfish rude and no thought in the world for others 👿👿👿👿👿👿👿👿👿👿👿👿👿😱😱😱😱😱🤯🤯🤯🤯🤯
the teens were so obviously disrespectful and that's normal bc they never had a real adult to guide them.
No way this is real, this needs to be some kind of BBC propaganda
We had a name for girls like Becs - practice girl.
@ Ik I alr searched it, he’s not  emo anymore 😔
@ i dont usually say that about people, esp real people, but he may be the exception 😭
thats the thing respect is earned and treating these kids with disrespect and not listening to there problems means they arent going to magically respect you, i mean if someone is rude to you in a supermarket do you magically respect them?? obviously not you are way more likely to not respect them after that...
و ما اريد الا رضاك و الجنه و العافيه و اعوذ بك من سخطك و غضبك و عذاب النار .
يارب ارحمني من الدخان بدون مرض اجعلني اقلع عن التدخين إقلاع جميل .
In England we parents are always in the wrong if kids are disrespectful and if we even thought of spanking them we would end up in prison 🙄
Her parents strict 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣 Our kids in Singapore never get out of hand like this she's a riot, We raise our kids from a young age with 4 hours studying and 1 hour of play time none of my kids are out of hand like these kids
They are so disrespectful.  She should not wrote them words that she did in that book .
جميل جدا ان يكون الإنسان عايش مع الله و يخافه و يلجاء له بالدعاء اذا اصابه خطب ما . و الله رحيم و حكيم
I don't get it. These parents rlly don't seem strict at all. At least not the one who's paying the dude to wash up. Still gonna watch this lol, but the title is kinda misleading to say the least.
This is just a UK thing. Their culture is messed up. British people have normalized alcohol like water. You tell them you're not serving alcohol at your wedding and they'll look at you like you've just combusted (from personal experience). Smelly badly maintained people, ridiculous party culture, mediocre food, high prices because it's an island.. It'll never be more than a weekend holiday destination to us. Their landscapes are gorgeous.
انا اريد اروح امريكا و اعيش مع عائله محترمه في امريكا .
يارب ارحمني و لا تتخلى عني . انا انسان اخاف من رفع سترك عني و اخاف من الاكتئاب الذي يصيبني بعد ارتكاب المعصيه
People who love themselves overall and what awkward self worth. They mostlikely cant stand those in poverty with real time problems but will use the poor or homeless as a cash grab cause. Donations will go to the aid of service. 😂
Don’t you understand how bad it is to runaway from God
ادعوا الله لهم بالهدايه فهم عباد الله ايضا . و لكن الشيطان تملك منهم .
what are they doing for the other hours that are not studying or playtime? and at what age do you start having your children study for 4 hours a day?
 @purrsuasively  The moment they can read, My kids started recognizing the alphabet at the age of 3 by drilling, At the age of 10 they perfected math
You shouldn’t put everyone in the same bucket honey. What you’re remarking on is pub culture and chav culture, and not all of us live to those low standards. I’d rather be English living in Britain than somewhere like America or Spain. The cultural problems around our island are greater.
the irony of saying this while living in america is crazy 😂
I wish more people in the uk took more pride in Christianity. I’ve always respected how Americans embrace the lord. Big love 🙏🏽
a lot of yall in the comments, please don't have kids, your kids will end up like these two since yall wanna do "gentle parenting" yall are gonna get disrespected by your own kids if you're gonna go with your regime
Sign up for a 14-day free trial and enjoy all the amazing features MyHeritage has to offer: https://bit.ly/EUMadeSimple6  1:52 Correction. Russia produced/refurbished 1550 tanks. (source: Bruegel).
fun fact : Poland has also more tanks than Germany, France, UK and Italy all together
As a European, Putin gave us a wake up call when he invade Crimea and then Ukraine and now Trump is giving us another wake up call regarding NATO so I certainly think that we need a European army and we need to be able to stand on our own and deter any potential future aggression towards our continent.
This video completely misses the mark by ignoring the critical role of non-EU NATO members, especially Turkey. Europe's defense without the U.S. wouldn't just rely on EU countries—NATO is much bigger than that. Turkey, for instance, has one of the largest standing armies in NATO, with 355,000 active troops, and plays a massive role in the alliance's southern flank. Acting like NATO would collapse the moment the U.S. leaves is just fearmongering. NATO isn't just the U.S. and Europe—it's a collective defense system with 31 members, each contributing in their own way. If the U.S. steps out, it would be a huge blow, but NATO isn't going to fall apart overnight. Turkey, the UK, Norway, Canada, and others are still there, and Europe isn't defenseless. This video needs to stop oversimplifying and acknowledge the full picture…
Experts : Russia about to fall apart any time soon, Ukraine winning this one. Also experts : Russia a major threat, could invade other countries any time soon. Make up your mind lol.
"Defending Europe WITHOUT the U.S. - Is It Possible?" ofc it is, but Europe has to ACT now! and its STUPID that Europe has not acted enough the last 3 years. as a Swede i am pissed at my Euro leaders being weak and slow thinking everything will be chill as soon the war in Ukraine has "calm down"..
Russia can't even do much in Ukraine. I think Europe is fine.
It is totally understandable, especially after decades of complaints by the US, that they will grow less and less inclined to care about European defence if our own countries don’t seem to give a shit about our own defence. Why would we expect the Americans to care more about our defence than we ourselves do.   It is an absolutely insane attitude
What a state humanity is in. To be discussing increasing defence spending and building more nukes in 2025 is insane. Especially when the average person is struggling to get by and taxes will no doubt rise again. Despite all our technological advances, it all comes back to killing each other over a bit of land.
USA stopped Europeans creating their own army, in the 2000s, there were several European military and defense initiatives that faced strong opposition from the United States, which ultimately contributed to their stagnation or failure. Here are the most notable examples:  1. European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP) & The 2003 EU-NATO Tensions 	•	What was it? The ESDP was the EU’s early attempt to build an independent military capability outside NATO. 	•	US Reaction: The US and UK (then still in the EU) strongly opposed any attempt that would create an alternative to NATO. 	•	Outcome: The EU had to compromise and accept NATO’s primacy through the “Berlin Plus Agreement” (2003), which ensured that any EU-led military missions must rely on NATO assets. 	•	Result: The EU remained dependent on NATO for military operations, preventing an independent European military force.  2. The European Operational Headquarters (OHQ) Proposal (2003-2004) 	•	What was it? France, Germany, Belgium, and Luxembourg proposed an independent European military headquarters (OHQ) to plan and conduct military operations without NATO involvement. 	•	US Reaction: The US and the UK blocked the proposal, arguing that it would duplicate NATO’s structures and weaken transatlantic cooperation. 	•	Outcome: Instead of an independent OHQ, the EU had to settle for a weaker command system, the EU Military Staff (EUMS), which still relies on NATO coordination.  3. EU Battle Groups (2005) – Never Used Due to NATO Pressure 	•	What was it? The EU created rapid-response Battle Groups (each 1,500 troops), intended to intervene in global crises. 	•	US Reaction: The US and NATO-aligned EU states (Poland, the Baltics, and others) discouraged their deployment, arguing that crisis management should remain under NATO. 	•	Outcome: The Battle Groups were never deployed due to NATO’s influence and internal EU disagreements.  4. European Defence Initiative (2010) – Blocked by NATO Countries 	•	What was it? A Franco-German push to expand EU defense capabilities. 	•	US Reaction: Washington, through NATO, discouraged deeper EU military integration, warning that it would “weaken NATO cohesion.” 	•	Outcome: The initiative was watered down, and the EU continued to rely on NATO structures.  Key US Motives for Blocking EU Military Independence 	1.	Preserving NATO’s dominance – The US views NATO as its primary tool to control European security policy. 	2.	Preventing EU strategic autonomy – A strong EU military could reduce Europe’s reliance on US weapons and technology. 	3.	UK and Eastern Europe alignment with the US – The UK (before Brexit) and countries like Poland opposed an EU army, supporting NATO instead.  Conclusion  While the EU has taken steps toward military cooperation, every serious attempt to create an independent European military structure in the 2000s faced US opposition. The US, often through NATO, successfully blocked or limited these initiatives to maintain transatlantic military influence.
Considering the Russian military performance in Ukraine, the NATO military forces, as long as their military buildup continues, would repel any attempted invasion as long as the European POLITICIANS was NOT INVOLVED with the defense even without the U.S... HOWEVER, the European POLITICIANS EGOs would cause them to lose any conflict W/O the U.S. taking charge! During the outbreak of WWII, France had way better tanks, and their troops were on par with N. Germany.  BUT France had too many HIGH-RANKING generals at the time who were generals only due to family connections, NOT on their ABILITY and they were expecting a repeat of WWI & had politicians who were too focused on appeasing N. Germany just like the rest of Europe, instead of preparing for war! Even after the war started, France & the rest of Europe had politicians STILL wanting to appease N. Germany! UNFORTUNATELY, that Exact Same Mindset Exists in Europe today!!! APPEASE, APPEASE, APPEASE!
Russia didn't produce 1500 tanks, they took old tanks and gave them new paint...
1:52 Incorrect. Russia simply REFURBISHED those tanks. The yearly production of new tanks for Russia is just 300-350 (source: Kiel Institute).
I really do not understand why 500 million people are scared of 150 million (and asking the question from title). It should be vice versa
Ofc. if US doesnt want to do their part of the post-ww2 deal (security) then Europe should work to reach full autonomy and challenge US interests in the world as rivals and no longer let them be because of the alliance. We should also never again let ourselves be dragged into wars started by the US around the globe. And lastly, EU should immediately start expanding its Nuclear Arsenal by at least 1000 warheads - ideally by 2000 or even 3000 warheads.
Don't forget that Finland has been preparing since the fall of the USSR for an Russian invasion! They've accumulated a huge army!
To me option 2 makes a lot more sense. If Europe acts as one we are a powerhouse of 450 million people and economies of scale will mean that a unified army is much more efficient money-wise.
Why shouldn't be possible? Why are we even asking this question?  We are talking about a bloc of 450 million people. A bloc with 3 of the top 10 most important countries in the world. A bloc with several of the most technologically, scientifically, and industrially advanced countries worldwide.  We are talking about a continent which took over the entire world, and ruled it for centuries.  OF COURSE IT IS POSSIBLE. Why do we doubt ourselves this way??? Just get the job done!
The quality of your videos has dropped since you hit 100k.
Gladly let me know what you think has gotten worse :)
​ @EUMadeSimple  Brother I think Croatia may have some combat experience, but yeah it's not as important to make a difference.
Europe can hold Russia back in would cause more casualties. And it does have lot nuclear weapons to level Russia. Even without USA support will still hold ourselves out against Russia and will cause heavy casualties on there. Fronts. We're not defenceless, despite what some journal says. I agree
What if Europe turns into the Untited States of EUROPE A Föderation like Amerika with a European Twist.
refurbishing tanks isnt as simple as it sounds according to someone who worked in the US abram reserve fleet , like yeah its cheaper and less work but not by much when the russians literally had some of these sulking in the harsh weather and climate for decades .
 @zvonac1995  Some? Way more than any Ukrainian or Russian or whomever today. Still, Croatia doesn't care about someone else's conflicts. Croatia was on it's own during the 90s, thus Ukraine can handle it itself, especailly since their population is way greater, like 46 millions of them. Croatians will not fight for someone else's home and sht. Bye
Imagine if usa also decide to take pizza called europe this time together with russia 😁
you mentioned purchase power parity on russia but not on china? china has by far the cheapest production. if one naval warship cost lets say 100 billion dollars to produce for the US china gets 5 or at least 4 warships for the same price, russia probably around 2 or 3
The very first sentence is tragically wrong.  Russia lost billions in OK-ish military equipment and is trying (unsuccessfully) to fill that gap with old crap. Like T-54 with slapped ERA blocks on top. That is not "ramping up military production", that is scavenging rotten planks to remain somewhat afloat.
you forgot Russia loose 10k there modern Tanks and 20k IFV. They using Donkeys and Horses because no more Armored Vehicles. they only produce or better modernice 30 tanks a months.
@ then you can see how to eat pizza like when western eat china like pizza in the past , win win except the pizza
I don’t know who my grandpa even is, my dad doesn’t know either and his mother doesn’t know either as well
 @EUMadeSimple  the third will start in xx29, I`m an expert in prophecies, youtube always removes my comments when I give the date
5 Thomas asked him, “Lord, we do not know where you are going; and how can we know the way?” 6 Jesus assured them, “I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John 14 "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" John 8:32 repent my brothers and sisters, only Jesus Christ saves.
 @TBJ1118  5 Thomas asked him, “Lord, we do not know where you are going; and how can we know the way?” 6 Jesus assured them, “I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life. No one comes to the Father except through me. John 14 "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" John 8:32 repent my brothers and sisters, only Jesus Christ saves.
And lost more than that in Ukraine.   ( How to lie with stats. )
As a conservative who was a little optimistic for Trump, it was discouraging what happened in the Oval Office.
To Europe I would just say: Defend your own arse. The honeymoon is over
 @footballhd1111  I had food on the table with Biden, this makes no sense lil bro
 @timothypaulino8454 thank you.  Finally someone who realizes what's happening as a Ex-Trump voter.
 @footballhd1111 what is your point.  Trump's destroying the free world we can unanimously agree on that.
​ @timothypaulino8454 you should had seen it coming,trump told you in the election campaign,you have a part in this
​@joshuaroth9248didn't he tell you imn the election campaign that he will stop sending arms to Ukraine ?
​@joshuaroth9248he told you what he'll do if he gets elected,your fault.
Zelensky screwed up bad. He would have been far better off just keeping his big mouth shut. Now everything is on hold.
​​ @footballhd1111 US economy and its growth is actually doing VERY well compared to Europe.  you just focusing on the wrong causes of why quiet big part of US population lives significantly below the living standart of the nation. then those folks usually for some reason will blame anyone else then their government internal policies.   "The wealth gap in the USA is significantly larger than in Europe, with the top 1% of earners in the US capturing a much higher share of income compared to their European counterparts. Factors such as educational inequality and a less progressive tax system contribute to this disparity in the US"  your economy was doing very well during Biden and it is still well but we will see the effects of Trump policies.   at the moment US is outperforming Europe by a lot in economic growth, but somehow we always hear many Americans complaining about their living standart.   its not Zelensky who is at fault for that.   its your own establishment which literally is preventing the wealth to spread more evenly across the nation resulting in some population living well below the standard which would be normal for the rich country like USA
Parents will protect their children when their children make mistakes once or twice. However, when a child does something that crosses the line and causes harm to many things, triggering something that should not be triggered, then the child must bear the consequences.  Hasn't that protection been in place for a long time, then after crossing the line, this is the result. knowing that there are unwritten boundaries in international and bilateral geopolitics. Don't cross that limit just for the sake of a few interests. One small thing done has a big impact on everything.  know that the world has something called international geopolitics and bilateral relations. Understand that first before getting into a chair
​@SOSOSOS2025 also what did trump do for the food prices like he promised?
You shouldn't call it a shouting match. Only trump and vance shouted.
 @timothypaulino8454  What part was discouraging? You clearly dont understand the paradigm shift.
Trump and Vance were the ones raising their voices, but yeah.
Mee... europe has to many small countries. It should make one or merge in russia.
All of us came here (from search results) after the shouting match, I assume. I mean--really--what comatose moron would even think about such a stupid question without some seriously thought-provoking incident. Without the USA deterrent, Beijing could quickly occupy the entirety of Western Europe if it were ever so inclined.
 @adnanbadshah3425  It was USA who asked europe to trust on their army size to protect europe from soviet union advance. After soviet union colapse, USA asked to keep their armies in europe to defend europe so europe dont need to grow to militar powers size that created ww1 and ww2 wars end.
​ @timothypaulino8454 It's pretty refreshing with nuances. We don't always have to buy the full package and accept everything our leaders do just because we voted for them. We have to hold our own accountable
​ @adnanbadshah3425  stop virtue signaling , you had interests that's why you helped, don't act like you did it out of the goodness of your heart. If Rusia took Ukraine them it would have dominated the European energy market and them you would have had to deal with China and a Russia that controls Europe. And frankly after what happened in the last decade your industry isn't there. And then you wouldn't be imposing tariffs you would be the ones receiving tariffs
​@RokasStulgaS&P 500 is by now the AI bubble and China just gave out a free software based AI that can compete with previous models, the only reason the bubble hasn't burst is that the government promised 500 billion dollars for AI and now everyone expects the bailout. Cause their industry hasn't changed overnight, decades of sending industry and investment to China don't get wiped that's why there's only a 10% tariff on them.
⁠@joshuaroth9248   Trump is dismantling the free ride. Keeping your world intact has become a very personal problem.
@PBPV7  it is not possible without bloodstream. In future, Europe will be one nation and Russia will take it with the support of usa. Entire north and south America including greenland  would be USA.
It wasn't a "shouting match".  It was Z;s final failure as the leader of Ukraine, a nation he brought to ruin.
 @mhmd.o.k  zelensky wanted to cry but needed little more motivation from JD. I mean vice president was addressing him as Mr. President and comedian addressed him as " listen JD have you ever been to Ukraine"
US also complains about gas price a lot the irony is its way cheaper than other non gulf countries
 @timothypaulino8454  Not me, zelensky needed to know he has no say
We all did because any decent human being would be as disgusted by trumps behavior as I am . Europe doesn't need trumps administration we are the strongest force in the world together . We always have been !!
It wasn't a shouting match. Shouting match implies BOTH parties were shouting. Zalenskyy was nothing but professional.   That was a hit job by Trump, Putin, and Vance. Plainand simple.
​ @RoadHater  Russian troll much? Go serve russia on the frontline, not the internet 💀
Zelensky will have to go back yo stand up comedy now 😂😂😂😂
​ @adnanbadshah3425 to the US  i would say make your own micro chips ! If the netherlands and taiwan today would decide not to supplie anymore it would render the us army uselless
It was disgusting to treat the Ukraine president like that. America is turning into a joke across the world
 @timothypaulino8454 loved it.  It was transparent.  That’s what us conservatives and libertarians wanted.   Let the EU defend itself.   Unless the EU wants to pay the US for protection. You guys should have let Russia join you guys back in the 90s.
 @alyxskyler  yeah he called JD a b1!(h  The politicians citizens and media have been drastically not supporting Zelensky for the past 3 years.
 @starventure  Clownzelensky should probably stick to comedy instead of trying to run a country.
I am a far-right conservative and I really hated what Trump did. Now I support Ukraine more than I did before.
 @timothypaulino8454  mad trump wont put more fual on the fire ? lol
Europe is stuck in the Cold War and not thinking of the next war.
@ timothypaulino8454 All negotiations that have ever happened looked exactly like the one we saw the other day. It’s transparency
​@RokasStulgaЯ думаю разруха в голове, дай бедным людям деньги и они сново станут бедными. Надо начинать с культуры, образование и социальных правил!!! Свобода это ответственность в первую очередь!!!
​ @simpel-logic И что ты хочешь сказать? Конфликт начался в 2014 не забывайте это!!! А то некоторые смотрят фильм со середины!
​ @justwhenithought Да ты что? А мы в России видели как Наркоман просто в наглую стал перебивать Трампа и просто в открытую стал хамить! Зеленский напросился, вёл себя не подобающе и получил за это!
​@joshuaroth9248No, Trump is simply tired of America having to pay for the free world. 🙄
​ @akmon3490 Так Европа без дешового сырья будет покупать дорогое и как она будет конкурировать!!! Мы прекрасно все жили по 2014 !!
 @mhmd.o.k  Panggung STAND UP COMEDY di bawa ke ajang geopolitik internasional dan bilateral. Maka inilah yang akan terjadi. Satu langkah salah mengakibatkan ratusan mill penderitaan terhampar di depan mata. Dunia memiliki peraturan tidak tertulis yang tidak boleh dilanggar. Ngomong ngomong, BRICS akan semakin memperluas jangkauan ekonomi mereka. Dan pertarungan ekonomi sebelum perang dunia ke tiga akan segera dimulai.
 @starventure  you expected him to sit there while’s trump called Putin a good man ? No USA can go history will remember them for this
⁠ @mysticone1798  so you’d rather have the Soviet Union back.??? Zelenskyy is no joke and he has every right to save his country
It was mainly Zelensky trying out his circus show but got shut down by Trump and JD
You wouldn’t accept anyone coming to your house and confront you about how you cook the food you are about to give them. Zelenskyy should have kept his mouth shut, even his ambassador couldn’t believe what the comedian was saying.
 @АнастасияВалькитина-х8щ  You must've been shown the edited version by the Russian State media. The rest of the world saw Trump interrupting and yelling over Zelenskyy first.
 @TinchoPerezGa  But nobody would eat that meal if a big Cleveland steamer was sitting in the middle of it.
Zelensky came for lasting support ... Zelensky has lasting support. Without Ukranian agreement there can never be peace and Trump doesn't talk to Ukraine anymore. Any further negotiations with Putin have no value anymore. The entire charade will go nowhere.
 @adnanbadshah3425  "Defend yourself" ... the Roman emporer anno 450 I hope in the end people will remember that America chose to become irrelevant.
@ well, unless the Cleveland steamer was who bestowed the invitation.
 @TinchoPerezGa  Trump took a dump in his lunch. Zelenskyy was ready to sign, but Trump backed away from his side of the deal.
 @starventure Vance had to keep his small mouth shut. POTUS is enough to talk for himself, this guy just can’t come to terms with the fact that his role is to bring Trump coffee But even if a simple argument became an obstacle to settling the bloodiest war in Europe of the 21st century, I think this agreement wouldn’t have lasted long, even if everything had gone smoothly and it had been signed
What exactly was his fault? Ge didnt sign the contract...that would habe been a fault. Selensky being a human being?   Being agitated, by a childish behaving  pair of men who have acess to nukes?  It was likely hope against better knowlede that he had even bothered to travel to Washinton for that talk.​ @starventure 
and this joke isnt even funny. Would be funny if it wasnt that dead serious.​ @mustafa-vank 
 @salustrever8846  Se Spagna, Italia, Francia  avessero una difesa comune avremmo un peso maggiore. Perché così com'è non contiamo niente
What shouting match? It was Zelensky being stately and trump and cronies trying to get him to capitulate.
 @starventure why should Zelenskyy keep his mouth shut?? How about someone invades American territory, should Trump keep his own mouth shut?? Your ignorance of Diplomacy is pathetic.
 @catherineharrison9441  Because it his damned office and Zelensky is the one making the appeal, not Trump. Your point of view is incredibly childish. You do not walk into the domain of any foreign leader and behave like that.
 @vHindenburg  All I can tell you is go read the transcript of the meeting, and read it carefully. That moment when he said the comment about the ocean is when it all went to hell. Zelensky should have known better than to try to pull that nonsense.
 @ОлексійГолівець  Vance is the heir apparent. He had every right to speak in conjunction with Trump. The responsibility when on a mission like Zelensky was on falls squarely on his shoulders alone, because as nice and tempting a "deal" it was for the Americans, it was theirs to walk away from and not the other way around. Perhaps Zelensky can go to the EU and offer the same deal in exchange for EU military presence in the Ukraine.
@joshuaroth9248he isn’t he is forcing the “free” world to defend themselves and to make America to stop spending money on stupid shit
@starventure  I just read it frim three different sourcess nothing has been said about an ocean.  Searching for a quote including ocean contained as much information.  You have it easy to say that ,since you feel save having the Big Pond inbetween . But that wont be hindering Russia, if it wants to do something funny.   I dont see how that could be considered nonsense , after all there was the Cuban missle crisis.  Maybe things have been left out? Would you be so kind and where the whole thing can be found?
@starventure  Have been trying to look it up, cannot find anything about the ocean in there. But the amount Trump and Vance fall into his word is staggering.  Please tell me where I can find the whole thing.
 @simpel-logic  Like NOT funding your own militaries, when you were told what the consequences would be. Who's at fault here?
 @ricardoxavier827  Not forever, we didn't. Grow up, assume adult responsibilites, and stop Whining.
 @akmon3490  The US can recover. Can Europe? I don't think so.
@xelthiavice4276 Wanna bet? A pullout is a very real possibility. Enjoy.
 @shannonhenson609  So are most Americans, or he would not be Pres.
 @robbietorkelsonn8509  NATO and all the nations of Europe, you mean, excepting very few...Finland, Poland...
 @catherineharrison9441  He should if he is in that country asking for help.
Shouting match? There was no shouting on Zelensky's part. They didn't let him finish a sentence after that coordinated attack on him started.
​ @ricardoxavier827 ok and now we're asking them to repay the money. Why don't they listen now? Foh
Trump should have shown some respect something he's not good at
It was like watching a drunk uncle scolding his nephew who screwed up. 😂😂
 @timothypaulino8454 you’re no conservative. Sounds like a weak minded and hearted liberal.
​ @timothypaulino8454 don't call yourself conservative if youre not loving this. Trumps done the only truly conservative actions since before nixon.
It was more of a scolding, then a “get out of here, I don’t even want to look at you.”
 @Alex-s-m2p  you are entitled to your opinion. I’m just thankful that for once in my life I voted for a particular agenda and promises, and that politician is actually doing exactly what he said he’d do. He’s got the popular vote and majority in congress and is bulldozing his way to enact the agenda. It’s glorious to behold.
@JS-ln4ns  That's all fair but I just think he is handling this wrong. But we can agree to disagree.
 @leodkm9557 he’s been in office less than 2 months. Please. You just love war!
Frankly, I was just waiting for trump to yell at Zelenskyy "We will bury you!!"
​ @starventure seems like trump and JD did most of the talking. And all of the lying  And forgot to get the $500 Billion mineral deal signed 😂🤡
 @akmon3490  We already receive tariffs. Trump is just returning the favor!
@KevinThomes  also you didn't comprehend the prediction I was making, the moment Russia has Europe americans will lose the trade war with China. The ones making the machines that produce transistors are a Dutch-german firm. The European industry would be unfeathered by energy problems and the only reason Japan and Germany didn't take the top spot for economics is cause they were the global hegemony and pushed Japan into stagnation in the 70's . Tell me what Americans produce that can't be produced in Europe and do they produce it cheaper than Europe or ?
​ @alyxskyler  his attitude and body language plus his comment to VP Vance said it all.
The only thing Zelenskyy was doing was making sure Ukraine has security guarantees before he signed the agreement. Trump refused to give them so Zelenskyy refused to sign. Don’t forget for 42 years, Western Europe AND America are under contract, therefore obligated, to give a security guarantee to Ukraine. Trumps refusal is showing America to be an isolationist country.
 @Roman.Rêbwar  Trump also told that Americans will no more have to worry about next elections... remember !
Zelleicky gaslighted everything. He suppose to look nice, sign and have lunch.
We all did.  That's how YouTube algorithm programing does us
 @mhmd.o.k  wasn’t this video posted after the meeting in the White House?
Because other parts of European defense relies on other countries. France has nukes, ships and planes for examples, but since they are is little chance of anyone coming within its borders on foot, it doesn't have the need for tanks.
​ @romans883 yeah but poland are in front line if Russia choose to attack sow i understand they want to keep their weapon right now. I'm French
USA loves Poland and Poland USA. We understand to be strong and respect Poland. We don't respect Ukraine or most of Europe.
 @romans883  wrong german did give poland tank so poland could give ukrain is older sovjet era tanks a win win for ukrain and poland
​@SteAllen-hi7jo😂😂 same reasons why Americans are getting tired of flipping the bill for Europeans.  Those tanks are for Poland, not Germany or anyone else
 @paranoid9678 first - Germans promised to give tanks, not gave it already. Simple reason is that they didn’t have anything to give at the time cause to very little amount of Leopard 2A7 produced. So this support was basically meaningless.  Vast majority of tanks given Ukraine by Poland (around 400 in total) was replaced by tanks bought from Korea and USA (over 1000 tank ordered by Poland in total from those 2 countries).
And Ukraine has a larger army than every NATO country barring some of the major ones, by major I mean the USA and only the USA.
@ Speaking from Poland here - You didn’t flipped anything for Europe.  Most of the „money for Ukraine” went to american weapon producers (part of latest deal for Ukraine was for example founding two new weapons factories in USA). Those money for american business went in exchange for weapon that Ukraine and Europe will need to pay off one way or another. You’re boosting your own economy this way like in every big deal with Europe you’ve made in last 50 years. The world order made after WWII and prolonged after Sowiet falls based on „selling seciurity” in exchange for economical advantage strongly benefited anerican economy. Your country become rich thanks to that, „flipping bills” is pure nonsense and propaganda.
yeah bro i saw it.. I am Czech and I was going to vacation to Gdansk.. and I saw the big ass army of hundreds, mby thousands vehicles and tanks. it was awesome look.
 @gumpyflyale2542  nah bro.. you forgot something. we are like 15 nations with each one of the countries has own leader.. we must stick together now
 @MariBorow    So, why doesn’t Ukraine get all of it’s weapons from Europe.  Could it be because Europe isn’t willing to manufacture weapons for its own defense, much less be able to supply any country at war.
 @FrugalandFit  Good, no one respect the US after yesterday's shit show
 @giovanni-ed7zq ah WW2 logic. We can’t defend France because UK is next so we are abandoning them even before the fight ever reached the UK.
Yes and Poland has 3 tanks; Leopard, Abrams, and Korean Panther. Which shows how ridiculously wasteful European defense is.
 @FrugalandFit  Probably why the prime minister of Poland said during a press conference: "With friends like that who needs enemies" referring to Trump
 @MrShnazer  Poland alone can't defeat anyone bigger. Only united Europe can defeat other superpowers.
Poland will need them, the baltics are overrunned in hours, Poland will be the first real defence line.
 @andybaldock303  Poland is in NATO so no Poland would never be next lol Russia knows it doesn’t have the men or logistics to push deep into Europe plus at that point article 5 is triggered and America is involved no matter who is president
 @MariBorow Europe has no one to blame but their own politicians. Idk if you’ve noticed but Europes been begging us to fight their battles for 100 years now. Let’s not forget France dragged us head first into Vietnam because they refused to give up the colonies and threatened to turn to Soviet influence if we didn’t. The money we’ve gotten out of Europe was well earned.
 @MrShnazer poland defending poland is poland defending europe if you like it or not, besides that if poland gets attacked europe is obligated to help, not with money or weapons but with bloodshed and tears, As a dutch man i am proud of poland and poland is indeed showing courage and strength more then most other european country’s, united we stand brother god bless.
Fun fact : the uk has doomsday submarines that can turn Poland and there tanks into Ash in seconds
 @BigNick2150  They have less equipment to equip infantry and they lack enough armored vehicles. Not to mention they’re not even bothered with trying to contest Russian air superiority.
@AndrewStevenson-l4w  the UK has zero reasons to do that. Both countries are strong allies
Finland has more artille than any of these individual countries, tied with Poland.
I thought the rest of Europe didn't like Poland because of there Poland first immigration policies?
Poland and the USA also very much like each other. Never once heard Poland rip on the USA like I hear nations like France, Italy and Spain.
N 12:50 ​ @GamesandNonsenseUnleashed  you seem clueless. There is in Poland a strong resentment against the US (specially Roosevelt) because of Yalta. Many believe (rightly) the US abandoned them to the USSR.
They also have better pickles and sausage... an army marches on its stomach. Jus say'n
dont forget turky its gonna be the powerhouse of europe for sure
 @giovanni-ed7zq  The Baltic states are next. Russia’s been saying they’re next for a while now.
 @paranoid9678  please review you text and come back with something better: C -
Fun fact: Poland also seems to be one of the only European countries spending an appropriate amount of their GDP on military defense in Nato.
Poland and Finland are the only 2 countries that have their shit together.   US should drop nato and just setup agreement with Finland and Poland.  This would be actual alliance.  Alliance meeting there is help both ways.
​ @andybaldock303  Poland is one of the few countries I believe the United States would help without question if they were attacked as they are one of the only responsible countries in Nato that is actually spending their GDP on defense instead of freeloading.
And most shitty logistics of all NATO members. Greetings - polish soldier.
 @FrugalandFit  The Poles do respect Ukraine and right now don't respect America.  Who in the world does?  America is a country with a fool for a leader.
 @andybaldock303  they would need to go thru Ukraine first. 3 years still no progress
As a greek i always liked poland. You faced the terror of both nazism and communism. Also LONG LIVE  JAN SOBIESKI.  THE KING OF COMMONWEALTH WHO STOPPED THE ottomans  !
This is true! Italy does not have a large land army for geographical reasons, we are naturally protected by the ALPS and the only other access is by sea. Italy has specialized in the combined use of the Navy and the Air Force where we are very effective, the mechanized infantry and artillery are mainly for defense.
​ @MrShnazer OK. It's like that, is it? That may not prove productive if you don't have allies around you!
​ @FrugalandFit  Congrats - you posted one of the most idiotic comments in YouTube history! You'll receive a medal very soon 🤡🎉🏅
 @GamesandNonsenseUnleashed  so much that President Trump gave 10 minutes to their representatives when they visited the White House last week. I hope they could exchange more than greetings within that time but maybe only the greetings were necessary since you're so close. I believe a simple phone call would have been cheaper and more time efficient.
God Bless Poland. They were left high and dry after WWII, forced to be in the Warsaw Pact because Truman and Churchill wouldn't fight for them. They said, "Never again" and are ready for Russia this time.
@ that would be hilarious but trump wouldn’t do it no matter how much he threatens it
​@jean-pauldoguet8342 that was 80 years ago. No resentment towards US or Germans
 @re1v3r  Far from it. Poland is an ally of Europe and Poles get along well with other Europeans.
Have you not read the history of WW2? If you don't work together each country goes down one by one. You have no choice but to help Ukraine. It's not about Poland defends Poland, it's about the free world, democracy defending democracy. Forget about your own egotistical national pride. ​ @MrShnazer 
Have you seen how tanks have helped Russia in the war.....Hmmm might not be that valuable after all.
Didn't you see it what was happen in Ukraine for the tanks😂 its not time for tanks man, the tanks himself are suicide 😅
They need those because their entire country is a flat plane lol
Poland is the only country in Europe that is taking defense seriously.   Thank went on a massive buying spree.
Greece comprises approximately 1,365 units (Leopard 2A6 HEL:  170; Leopard 2A4/GR: 183; Leopard 1A5/GR:  501; M48A5 MOLF: 390 and M60A3 TTS:  100)
​@payardman  I disagree they just found out bidens not in there anymore.
 @marcin1zinczuk  yes because Trump's complacent and coward behavior toward Poutin reminds them of Roosevelt toward Stalin.
The UK is an Island so it isn’t as important. The UK’s navy dwarfs Poland.
 @WinterXR7  If I wasn't a citizen of beautiful US of A, I wouldn't mind Poland. Thanks for being what someone else called, the "Texas of Europe". Please understand I mean that as a compliment and nothing else.
Poland is living on EU money now. At some point they have to start paying
Because Poland borders Russia and its great plains of flat land, Europe has some joint-thinking, the UK has a better airforce and navy, more missiles and greater intelligence-building capabilities. Why would the UK need as many tanks when their war would most likely be fought in the air and at sea in The GIUK gap, blockading the black sea protecting air bases on Cypress and providing intel from advanced aircraft and drone tech? They would also be one of the main ammunition supplies as they are far enough away with the channel between them to make them secure from a ground invasion. I think you forgot the UK and France both have ICBMs and Trident Nuclear submarines that they are currently in talks with Germany about sharing nuclear capabilities.
 @RocketScienceIsSimple  Tanks are not the game changer you think in this drone timeline.
@Lark-t1y  Correct, every county has different challenges and should concentrate on what makes sense for them, working together and supplementing each other in different ways is the way to make alliance stronger.
Poland is arming rapidly with strong ties with South Korea who is now a major arms exporter. russia degraded by its war in Ukraine.
@1flinns  I literally never said so  But as a former csor in the caf, I can assure you tanks are important to secure positions.
In Poland we trust ✊ but I understand them. The Russian’s are not going to have it as easy there as they did in 1939
You guys defeated Russia/USSR in 1920. Take out their attack in your back in 41, you would have at least held off the NAZIs in 41 for a while. Way back the Polish Lithuanian Commonwealth was feared and powerful, why Napoleon and RUSSIA ripped you apart again from both sides. I am Australian of Slovenian heritage, Poland is a nation which can hold its head high in these troubled times.
Good for you. But the UK or Italy (as an island and a peninsula) don't need tanks but a strong navy: together they have more carriers than China. If only Europe could get along we would be strong and indipendent
 @felipevidal5205  Why Poland is the most threatened than for instance Finland. Please explain.
​ @GamesandNonsenseUnleashed  Italy against the Usa?? We mind our business as much as we can
Poland is 21 on the world military strength list. France and Italy are in the top 10
For Germany being on the European plain, it needs tanks and other armour on a scale on par with poland
Poland is a front state. Germany and France has to put their focus on production and logisitic. In war they would be further away and the factories better protected.
 @FrugalandFit  like we dont respect Trump and his clown J.D. "painted eyes" Vance, but we respect U.S. like a nation. Greating from Poland
​ @FrugalandFit  bro im from Poland and I also dont respect West europe countries (this left polutical bullshit) and also I dont respect as country Upa. I hear few tragicznie storys that happend in Wołyń but our politicians dont want to talk about it. Except one party
 @fibber2u I’m Polish and it’s exactly the opposite to what you’re saying. Get your facts straight coz they’re square!
 @fibber2u I’m Polish and it’s exactly the opposite to what you’re saying. Get your facts straight coz they’re square!
not so fun fact: Poland gave away the majority of their tanks to Ukraine. They put in orders for more, but they havent been delivered yet. So more tanks than germany,france and uk is false. You are counting orders thats not even slated to be fully delivered by 2030 or later.
 @ringofkaren  You are clueless, stop repeting what you overheard and get your facts correct.
Turkey has a huge army. But now they are more into investing in Syria.
​ @majkib i'm amazed by the amount of people that thinks that France lost ww1 .open a  history book ffs
Greece has even more. Europe has 14,000 tanks in total, Ruzzia has only 3,000 left, mostly old crap from the USSR.
@ France and Italy have a pretty large navy and air force.   Soviet armies generally focused on massive armored contingents and an unholy amount of infantry, meanwhile western armies focused on improving more specialized areas such as air force and navy.
 @S0phieBG ingen vil være i samme rom som Trump mer en 10 minutter hvis di kan slippe
​ @MrShnazer is not like that, Poland will defend Europe by defending its borders ( East flanks) but from history we know that Polish usually cooperates and fight arm to arm with others. I hope the EU army will be created we really need and is long overdue.
 @mr.g5593  I was just replying to the people before me. Even through it wasn’t mentioned as much by the media as the meeting with Ukraine. I don’t remember why the meeting was cut short.
@ also I apologize, I used google translate to try to understand your reply and I’m not sure if I understood it well.
​@yeetman4953Poland is politically divided in leisure times but we are quite united when there is something threatening us.
@settolove2024  Poland is geographically less protected from whatever side due to its large plain fields i.e., there are no relevant geographical barriers protecting its territory, additionally, Poland is part of the heartland (see Mackinder and its theory of heartland). Finland on the other hand has dense forests and harsh winter and is not part of the heartland making it less prone to be in plans of invasion from other nations at this momentum.
​ @alexgti79 problem is that illegal immigrants already showed us how difficult and almost impossible it is for Italy to protect its sea. So yes, Italy doesn't have to invest in tanks but definitely there is something which should be improved.
@ That is so irrational I think you should consider adding "Brain" as a prefix to your user name.
fun fact, tanks are becoming obsolete due to javelins, missile and airforce. Airforce and Navy are much more important
 @WinterXR7  More manpower yes, not airforce, navy, technology, economy, nukes, AFVs etc
I thought the whole point of NATO was so a dictator couldn’t invade and conquer Europe.
You did very poor research : A. Resources needed to produce armored vehicles etc are much more expensive now to Russia due to import bans and tarries B. The " production " of " new" tanks are more then 75% just a re commissioning of old t-55 and t-62 models C. The structure and chain of command of the Russian army is the nr1 reason they didn't prevail in concurring Ukraine. Imagine how good of a job they will do when they knock on Polands or Germany with a beefed up modern army.
​ @anthonymanross2914  are we though? I doubt most Americans can even point to where Poland is.
@LogosDIA Fun fact: tanks were being destroyed from the very first few MINUTES of their use in battle. There has NEVER been a period in history when they could not be destroyed, by infantry, artillery and airpower. There has been a struggle between defence verses offence in war since the Stoneage: it swings one way and after time the other way has the advantage. It remains true both Ukrainian and Russian troops are safer crossing a battle field and fighting in armoured vehicles (even today) than without. Tanks are here to stay, how they are used may fluctuate that is all.
 @MariBorow  Just how ignorant are you? Do you think the US can keep producing such hardware forever, without compensation? Those companies would be bankrupt before breakfast, and no one gets anything. And pray tell, how has any European nation done when the issue is paying off war debts to the US. Poor doesn't even come close to describing the situation.
 @giovanni-ed7zq  They they are not, this is obvious for everyone. Noone in Eurooe has real reason for conflict with russia unlike Ukraine with possible foreign military base near Russian border. But military gives Poland more pol weight in Europe.
 @andybaldock303  Give one reason why. What precious thing does Poland have that Russia does not?
But as usual FRANCE won't know what to do when the moment arrives!!!​ @RocketScienceIsSimple 
 @FrugalandFit  Please only speak for yourself especially if you don't know anything about Poland and its role in the EU.
@backlash8776  I speak however I want. Free speech is back.  USA 🇺🇸 Trump USA 🇺🇸
The UK builds it's own shit I dunno why Americans think otherwise y'all are weird bro​ @RocketScienceIsSimple 
 @GARYGUYTON-c7i   It's funny how delusional you are. US isn't giving anything for free to anyone.  First - Weapon that they sell to Europan allies (including Poland) is well paid in billions of dollars.  Even most of the money "for Ukraine aid" went straight to american companies. That's second.  Third - political order supported by american weapon in Europe strongly benefited american economy and gave them giant zone of economical influence - that's first and only reason why america sends weapon anywhere.   What kind of "war debts" youre blabling?
Who asked the US to put bases in Germany? They make it sound as if it was a favor 😂
With swedish military tech, we have the best subs in the world, also our tech is on the topp
I don't think tanks play that much of a role anymore. Drones seem to be the dominant factor by now. And Poland is buying those big time from Helsing and whatnot too by now. Which si grand. Considering how little access Ukraine had to NATO weapons, how would Russia stand against Poland these days? Poland, who has full access to NATO armory.
 @nikolausjohansson1072  yea sweden the country that has had a shooting every 28 hours since the new year
​@SteAllen-hi7jothey wont lend them Poland has been adament in standing alone.
 @andybaldock303  No it wouldn't... It would be Moldova because; a) Moldova is not in the EU, b) Transnistria would be the smoking gun.   Putin would see the excuse to take and annex Transnistria with the same excuse he occupied Crimea and the Donbas region.
 @CM-ve1bz  The British is the ones who make that nice Chobham amour for your Abrams tanks. Then there is BAE systems which is British and is the 3rd largest defense company in the world and the largest in Europe.
@b1u324  dossent matter since it dosent take away what I just said
Tanks aren't great anymore more with the advance warfare but does help Poland because they are close to Russia. Ukraine destroy a lot of Russian tanks with cheap drones.
 @FrugalandFit  You DON'T speak for the Unites States mate. I doubt you could find Poland on a map. I and MANY of us do Support Ukraine and Europe (which includes Poland).
Russia had more tanks than all of Europe and lost to Ukraine, not only lost its tanks, the artisanal way Ukraine destroyed the Russian tanks without resources taught a lesson in relation to strategic theories, this is already a fact.
​ @payardman you pump up right ready to fight, you are mad and now you will defend Ukraine at all cost to prove trump wrong....thank you zelensky you play your role.. Good acting..that will make Putin receptive on a lot of trump ideas...
@LiamTate-b1v  You have the wrong person  I never spoke about the UK.
 @anthonymanross2914  with your current government i'm pretty sure US would abandon Poland and not respect article 5 of NATO if russia attacked our territory, trump would make a post about "Poland is playing with WW3" and vance would be  " WHY ARE YOU NOT THANKFUL FOR US BEING PROUD?". So yeah, it doesnt matter who is proud and who is not.
@patricebanio8224   Look up Operation Totem and you'll find they do lol.  Not healthy for the operators mind.
Uk has nothing... Be the uk give that much money away to other countries it can't even defend its self...😂
​@Tiberii1832 it was. Without them Germany would have fully fallen into the hands of the Soviets.
As an American, Poland is the ONLY nation I’d keep as an ally after we dump NATO.
@johnchurch9351  regarding their prime minister recent declaration about Trump, it don't think that is reciprocate
its sad to see this. There are riches on this God created earth enough for all. I hope in the end all ends well.
 @yazey91  Russia would never attack Poland. And I do not mean it because we are such good friends, no. It is because we are in the NATO, there are US troops here but most importantly, we are separated with swamps across our border. The advance would be slow enough to make it unreasonable for Russia to attack. And also, it is simply not worth it. There is nothing here that Russia could potentially want.
 @Saliem02  We care, I know that you - russian doesnt care but you dont care even for you own people.
@1979benmitchell  I speak for the majority of the USA. I'm here I know
​ @FrugalandFit so you have no say really. That is a cruel thing to say. Foul actually.
Don't forget that Poland is being subsidized by the EU big time. Last year it got 137 billion euro from the EU funds. So who is paying for those tanks? My country is a netto contributar we pay every year 5 billion to the EU so some of those tanks, etc are ours!!😂
 @damianp7313  Dziękuję. Zdanie w języku polskim zaczynamy wielką literą, a kończymy kropką. Pozdrawiam.🫡
Poland will have the biggest tank brigade in Europe in less then 2 years
@ and it will be the smallest in 4 years if they go to war.
@ Every European nation has shown how "strong" it's commitment to defense and NATO if...for decades. You ain't kidding anyone.
Poland gave all their tanks to Zelenski and Poland tanks are destroyed and rusting on the Ukrainian battlefields.
How many trident subs do they have armed with nukes ?
I seem to remember the uk going to war over germanys invasion of poland ?
Tanks are not really worth the money ! But Poland also bought a lot of very good weapons from South Korea , and license to start producing them
I think you massively underestimate the chance that Russia gets to France.
Tanks have proven to be obsolete in modern warfare. Metal coffins.
Polish tanks defend NATO lands as well as all the others combined.​ @romans883 
​ @romans883  Poland is a NATO member so their military assets will be used for Europe is necessary.
Greece too , Poland and Greece are the only countries in all Europe that pay above 3% of the GDP  , I think we reached 3.5 % and Poland 5% or so
With the development of drones, tanks are much less important in modern warfare than they were 3 years ago.
 @MrShnazer I agree with this. Poland is allowed to defend only it’s borders and so to is the US.
Not so fun fact: we learned from Ukraine war that tanks are absolutely useless against cheap fov drones. Plus I would trust polish tank giving me lift to a pub...
​ @mrfug5744  The USA has 2.4 times the population of Russia and Russia is running out of money. Time is also running out for Putin.
Speak for yourself, many Poles are proud Europeans and share common European indentity, especially educated people in the best developed regions
 @andrewmurphy2634  not so conservative this days, at least not as conservtive as many other former Eastern Block countries, especially younger generation
Russia doesn’t want war with Europe, so the real question is why does Europe want war with Russia?
what is the common link language of EU?   Lets say EU people unite so I move from Romania to Sweden. What language should I speak. How do I deal with basic stuff like Administration, Judiciary, Higher education, Banking services, Income tax filing, any future EU army, etc. So unless EU officially has a common link language for these basic stuff, EU will be weak.  India (English), China (Standard Mandarin), USA (English), etc have the common link language officially for basic stuff like Administration, Judiciary, Higher education, Banking services, Income tax filing, etc
 @Knowwhatimeans  in reality, it would have to be an EU army. Non EU countries won't respect or tolerate EU leadership of their militiaries in the main. That situation might change at each election so chaos would be the order of the day. NATO will be the preferred option for some, even EU states. EU military, not European.
 @firstpostcommenter8078  it would be english lmao what else is it going to be, english is a very globally used language and has hundreds of millions of users in europe alone - germany has around 45.8 million alone and germany is commonly seen as the leader/centre of the eu as well as being the main host of american presence in europe
Glad yall are waking up, you shouldn’t be just counting on us Americans
Stop being dependent on wake up calls. Some of us are awake at all times. Here is another wake up call: Islam in Europe.
do you know why Russia invaded eukrain. eukraine bombed east eukrain ethnic russians in racism
 @studioarc517  Which country is that? All important countries have common link language be it China (Standard Mandarin), India (English), USA (English), etc
 @firstpostcommenter8078   - Lets say EU people unite so I move from Romania to Sweden. Uhm... you can already do that, both Romania and Sweden are in the Schengen Area.  - What language should I speak. Swedish.  - How do I deal with basic stuff like Administration, Judiciary, Higher education, Banking services, Income tax filing, any future EU army, etc. In Swedish.  - So unless EU officially has a common link language for these basic stuff, EU will be weak. Switzerland is over 7 centuries old and has 4 official languages.
Yes we need t o create the EU militar parliament to our generals vote to form a unified command of the EU army, and keep each member with the freedom of having in parallel their own national armies, keeping the freedom to be able to leave EU and EU army at their own will.
@ricardoxavier827  i hope so! Asking on behalf of Canada if we can join. Cheers
And each 4 or 5 years our generals vote for a new unified EU army command leadership.
@ and currently the eu isnt doesnt have an army and is pretty divided still i dont get your point - and english is already commonly used by the eu
Yeh that ain't gonna happened. The stupidity and greediness from politicians will end us all.
 @dylanw1248 well if it weren’t for all the treaties signed granting this security - particularily germany was not yet intended to fully mobilize miliatry power incl. nukes for well known reasons, there is a reason american military bases in europe are dominant in germany. think then speak … leave german bases, we’ll take over. good bye
 @firstpostcommenter8078  you will be able to manage every day life in sweden easily just speaking english
 @albus5796  How will I file income tax, go for higher education, deal with banking services, Judiciary, etc?
 @tartoflan  Well, its not available in Germany for higher education. Netherlands colleges are restricting it further. Banking services, income tax filing, etc are not available in English. Why am I spelling all these out here? If you don't know then you should not even reply but be a mute spectator and read comments
He didn't give you anything. Europe is not in danger. Stop believing the alarmism and Russophobia. Crimea had nothing to do with the EU. Neither does Ukraine.
Where was NATO EU for the last three years? Germany has only 1.5% (as is the average spending for all EU countries) spending on defence. Maybe if they all have mobilised three years ago, Putin would back down upon seeing a better-armed Europe today!  Germany provided a total of €10.6 billion in military aid to Ukraine, making it the largest European donor in this regard and by the end of 2023, the total value of French military equipment delivered to Ukraine amounted to approximately €2.615 billion. As of early 2025, the U.S. has allocated approximately $67 billion in military assistance.  Why don't you Europeans take the lead--just boycott Trump, assume leadership--and solve the war?! Just saying "We stand with you, Ukraine," is not going to stop Putin from marching to Kiev--I mean, it had not stopped him for the last three years and hundreds of thousands of people are DEAD.
The population of the European Union is 449 million. The population of the USA is 340 million.  The EU has more population. I am confident that the EU will be able to fully ensure its protection.
@firstpostcommenter8078 belgium have three languages, switzerland have four languages and are more united than the US, language is more an excuse than anything else.   during 3000 years european tried to rule the continent by force, today we are closer and closer to succeed it by diplomacy.   but the question deserve to be asked; some have a project called esperanto, we could start by teaching it to children in school as it's an easy language which combine many european words. i'm still agree that a european federation will not pop overnight, so many thing to think, a european army is already a good start.   but we can still start with english, i mean i can already cross border and work in germany if i want, we already use english as a lingua franca today. but even in country with a main language people can still speak their language in their region it's very common so why not apply it to europe.
Problem is Europeans expect everything for free. That and you'll never get all the countries to agree. Each have different priorities
Wow!  It's like Trump and the American Right actually had a good point!  Who'da thunk!?
 @johnbattle7518  Who is telling that we want anything for free? This is BS. The EU is damn slow, thats right. But its much more democracy than the US shows today... We can not dictate what everybody has to do or to spend.
100% it’s crazy with the looming threat of china Europe hadn’t got the hint sooner
 @firstpostcommenter8078  you can actually study in eglish for free in sweden as a member of the EU but I do see that you are advocating for a secondary english language system in EU member states which I would also say would definetly be a help. I dont really see how this is relevant for a european army. I dont need to file a report in a different country or even live in it. Its all about channeling the collective european resources to be able to defend against superpowers like russia, china and maybe even the US if they keep going like this
I mean yeah. It’s a good thing for everyone involved if Europe is able to defend themselves. It’s what a lot of Americans want to.
Its not your Continent. ITs Ours, there are countries that oppose EU politics and are rather exploited by it. The EU is not unified.
 @jvt201 yes, you are right unfortunately many many people do not know this! Peace my friend
well, our economy is not based on war.  Theoreticaly without russia, europe wouldn't have any need of any army.
 @aciidbraiin8079  Is Islam a problem? I keep hearing in the media oh Islam is terrible etc etc. But every Muslim I've ever met has been nothing but lovely. My best mate in college was a muslim from Afghanistan, my lab partner at uni is a muslim from Iran, my current flatmates are muslims from Qatar (and they're so kind they once wanted to share their food with me instead of me trekking out into the winter cold to the shop.) Bear in mind I'm a very white, very obviously NOT muslim/arab man. Then there's the arab and muslim men I interact with in the gym, they're all lovely and more than happy to work-in with me. None of them have ever tried to preach Islam, or tell me my ways are wrong, they practice their religion in their own time and leave me to do whatever. I don't know how people can actually interact with these people and see an issue? Ignoring the fear mongering in the media about radicals, most people are nothing like that. They're just people who want to live happy lives like everyone else.
Crimea was saved by Russia as is the Donbass. Read some history.
 @raynerstuelgalid  European countries paid for 60percent of total cost of war in Ukraine until now, so dont think they haven’t done their part.
Whats the guarantee that europeans wont start fighting each other again?
 @firstpostcommenter8078  English, almost everyone in EU speaks at least a little EU
Exactly,  we don't need US to tell us what to do , we should build a EU force and protect ourselves,  we have the money, the people,  we can do it.
 @studioarc517  not with multiple langues in Administration, Judiciary, Higher education, Banking services, Income tax
He annexed crimea after a terrorist coup against the ukrainian government in 2014. Now he is liberating the entirity of ukraine, were you asleep until 2015?
​ @VisiblyPinkUnicorn but in Switzerland, German is mandatory and at least one other Swiss language is mandatory. How many Swedes speak Romanian? How many Italians speak Danish? That is what he is referring to
Russia gave a wake up call when they invited Moldova and Georgia.
@kinglizard3406  yeah i get it afterall but then we can just choose a language like espéranto to make no jealous and it's fine 😅
​ @tento2945 your population has no weapons. Of your slight population advantage your population may have 3 percent with weapons, in the u.s I'd bet almost all our population has weapons, not even close to the same. All of Eu spends less on military every year then u.s. EU cannot currently produce the same protection as the u.s.a
​ @williamdafrogg5305 we are not a democracy, as a country we were created and have always been a constitutional republic. Overwhelming support was shown in the last election for our country to help ourselves for once and stop blowing it on other countries. We lose thousands of people every year to natural disasters alone, we didn't even have enough to help our own people because we were helping Ukraine. Makes absolutely no sense for us as a country. Thank god for trump
As an European myself too, I want to see European Army BUT AT THE SAME TIME I WANT TO MANTAIN OUR NATIONAL ARMED FORCES…
and  why Russia will invade small territories in Europe (the Baltics, etc.) with alt most no resources and with the risk that they will be defended by Nato escalating a big war, when they can invade all central Asia up to Afghanistan, and Mongolia, etc. , that are much bigger territories with much more resources, if they really want to invade someone ?!?!
Europe nations r too coward to fight alone thts why they formed nato sato gato etc
The Crimea is majority Russian ethnicity. So maybe you should back up?
Can’t wait to see how this energy holds when the EU draft begins.
Trump told you in 2016, but you guys laughed at him.
​ @johnrickles3378 I don't believe civilians having weapons constitutes a fighting force that can take on a military invasion. Especially not the russians: they tend to go for massive artillary bombardments. Having an AR-15 won't stop that. You are right that Europe at the moment does not have enough domestic arms production (with the possible exception of France), but most of that is because we always bought American weaponry. Which was stimulated by the US, I might add (the US does like to make money). And I want to stress that these weapons were bought by us, not gifted by the US. It is true that European armies have been dwindling since the end of the cold war and we need to take care of that. And I would like to add that Canada and European NATO members have fought alongside the US in every military operation that the US started in the last three decades, so it is more like the other way around: the US likes to depend on Canada and Europe to protect its military 😋
Russia didn’t just enter Crimea.  Read some more info on that areas geopolitics. They were forced by US democrats and NATO poltics using Ukraine. And they created a war front where money laundering happens.
Exactly instead of day dreaming about 2 years maternity leave free stuff free government handouts experiencing culture lol while we americans bust our asses off to pay for your military defense
 @firstpostcommenter8078 thats the problem because EU wants to be “linguistic” you see now why americans have 1 language?😂 yes let that sink in… we speak other languages but we only need 1 official language😂
 @TheHesseJames  It isn't. Netherlands started removing English in many higher education courses. Germany has too many courses in German language. How are people supposed to move freely and feel united? Ofcourse someone from Romania would tell Germany citizen(Germany citizen could be a jew, could be from an immigration background who acquired Germany citizenship, Could be from German ethnicity, etc) to shove off instead of feeling united.
⁠ @raynerstuelgalid Actually it is about 130 billion from America.  Also remember… in GRANTS.. not a loan!  Your response is also another reason Trump and many Americans want to pull out of NATO… years and years of support and military aid, and for what??  To be belittled by Europeans and told we need to be boycotted!  It’s a joke really and I yearn for the day we can pull out NATO.
 @VTh-f5x  I know, isn’t it funny that some people in here think that we can all just get rid of our armies and sing Kumbaya together, as if Russia is the only threat.  lol
 @alexandrudascaleanu5429  as an American and a strong Trump supporter I actually support your message!
@ you feel united with your family against you neighbor family, your town against your neighbor town, your region against your neighbor region, your country against your neighbor country, Europe against the rest of the world. Those are just different levels.
These are serious non-issues.  England and France both have nuclear weapons  Russia would never go so far as to attack actual NATO countries.  Ukraine as an un-allied player, means almost nothing for everyone else.  And all Ukraine needed to do to avoid this war, was formally declare neutrality, and make sure that Russian speakers in Ukraine were treated more fairly... Not very complicated.  Crimea was a critical Russian asset that the Soviets put under Ukraine for logistical reasons... If Ukraine had maintained neutrality, the first conflict over it wouldn't have happened either.
 @Knowwhatimeans  As a Spanish, Putin gave us several wake up calls that SPEXIT needs to happen.
Good America isn't Ur strong rich daddy it's time to grow up and move out of the house. All jokes aside u should have power projection anyway u can't help anyone or yourself without it unless u wait until the conflict is at the door. This is the American key just a tip for u. All u need is a massive Airforce and Navy also trillions of dollars to build it.
​@carlostapia1644   You and Europe have enjoyed the USA nuclear umbrella for eighty years.
But Europe ignored the Crimea alarm bell. It snoozed it, until about 2022/2023. Between 2014 and 2022, defence spendings of many NATO members were way below 2% GDP. The further away a member is from Russia, the least it spent on its military. It's too little too late.
 @dylanw1248  well spoken. we should put our money in our safety directly and not indirectly by financing the US dept.
 @firstpostcommenter8078  You're not the brightest candle on the cake, are you? Nato works together over 70 years! You think they never figured out how?
French are against that, they don’t want to spend their money of German tanks. United military automatically means uniting everything also military productions. French are against it. So I blame French
@ Due to Western censorship, protection and fear of Islam I can’t reply to you. This should be concerning to you.  Democracy is over.
Wish you had woken up when Ukraine ousted out their own president in 2014 illeagally and asked Putin for military aid... Might have resolved this whole situation before it started had you not just listened to Yanukovych from the start...
 @thecluckingdead794   in ogni cantone svizzero ognuno parla la sua lingua: nel Canton Ticino si parla l' italiano.
hear hear, we have the most beautiful continent on earth IMO and must defend her at all costs against the blight of the world
Basically NATO was active while it was interesting to the USA, now Usa wants to leave LOL.
​ @firstpostcommenter8078  Portuguese here. English is continental Europe lingua franca. Should be the official 2nd language in all EU countries. We all know that
Maybe we could try to walk back the demonisation and hatred we and try and make peace ( while also preparing a defence capability independent of the US).
Why are you including Ireland in this? It is an EU country but is neutral militarily
So good morning welcome to 2025 where were pssy eu armies until today?
@coc_is_me  there is no such thing, only values, economy and geography. Ireland seats there comfortably. Neutral until it's not
the biggest threat in europe is not America, it's the US.... Stiring conflick and in the end leaving Ukarine to fend for itslef... basically abonded in the middle of the war
I agree. It’s obvious that Trump and Putin are in this together.
EU. Created Russian as a threat. You keep getting closer to Russian border 😂
Also, if you want a European Army, please say goodbye to whatever sovereignty you may have left!
Why don't Europe just keep Ukraine out of NATO? Why don't they just keep the territory neutral?
 @snaphaan5049  a tip for Europeans since you guys are now on your own: offence is defence.
​ @firstpostcommenter8078  english bro... or german,  but english is already the global-international language wtf, so if you move from Bulgaria to Romania to Sweden you speak english yes
​ @firstpostcommenter8078  And EU has, the official language link is english bro
 @firstpostcommenter8078  Seaspeak , but it's mostly spoken by truckers and blue coller workers .
We are sick of your disrespect. Good luck. We are out.
​@aciidbraiin8079  Good. Islam needs more raise in Europe. Cause Chirst wasn't a god but a Messenger
@SatumangoTheGreat  you are very simple if you think that and know nothing of history. My country was created by civilians having crappy weapons and farm utilities taking on the strongest and most well trained military of the time. Our ar-15s and long range hunting rifles will easily repel any force coming to try to take over our country through land, we have several million ex military just like me that are highly trained and ready as always to defend our liberty. There is no way any country in existence at this point could actually take over the Continental USA .
@SatumangoTheGreat  most of our battles we've engaged in overr the last 50 years have been proxy wars acting as the world's police force because no one valued their own security enough to build up their own defenses
No way.   You know it will all fall on the U.K.
 @Spudster203  it should be Russian or German. Britain left the EU and USA is opposing Europe. Why use their language? if we want to be truly independent we have to transition to Russian/German
 @firstpostcommenter8078 EU forces already work together. Everyone speaks English close to fluent.
 @Happidap  Well, even if "everyone" speaks English fluently "everything" is not available in English be it higher education, judiciary, income tax filing, banking services, etc
 @nevillebott5501  Not really. Weaker countries talk while stronger countries do whatever they want. Why should one EU country trust another. AfD just said they will consider removing citizenship of citizens in Germany, try to make Germany exit EU, etc. And thats fine. Why should someone from Romania care about Germany. One cannot even go from one to another place and do basic stuff as not everything is available in a common link language
 @cautarepvp2079  Well, the income tax website is not available in English
Thats what happens when you can live of someone else money -The American Taxpayer
..... To deter any potential future aggression towards our continent, we need to be able to stand on our own ..... That'll be a first.
exactly we all do. literally you all need to start doing more why is the us the strongest? why do we spend more? everyone needs to be equal. then there can’t be any conflict if there is have fun
Just speaking.  Europs problems should be European  problems. Americans should not still be paying because of euro stupidity.
@aciidbraiin8079 Woooaah buddy!  You are going to be put into the EU goluag if you keep that up.
 @firstpostcommenter8078  everyone in Sweden knows English, and almost everyone in Europe under 50 knows English. So over time everyone knows at least English + his native language.
 @mirey-lamb  why use russian it is a laguage that is not intergrated into a majority of the eu and the actually important nations have a negligible russian speaking population/similar language and german is nowhere near as wide spread as english - not using english because of petty politics  is a symptom of the reasons  of why the eu is so behind
 @Spudster203  Russia is part of Europe and has a lot of people. The Soviet Union had 350M people. Russia has 120M now, sure, but the other 230M did not just disappear.
 @mirey-lamb  lmao those other people didnt all speak russian and russia is an enemy not an ally along with the fact that most slavic countries are in sub importance to the rest of the eu as well as my points earlier
 @Spudster203  All of them spoke Russian, since it was an official language and taught in schools
I support your idea . IT'LL be in European countries  interest to 1rst build their military capacity (hardware), and boost personnel experience in real combat scenarios.  If Europe does direct confrontations with Russia today or tomorrow I can assure u, Europe won't recognize what would have hit their soldiers...
American troops will be pulled out of Europe soon...hope your leaders get prepared soon.
 @mirey-lamb  lmao 30 years ago and my points still stand, not sure why you want a slavic language to be used all across the eu that is already outclassed by english just for the sake of "muh usa uses it and uk" (even though the uk is walking back to the eu and is still close with europe)
 @studioarc517  One of the cornerstones of the United people in America is the common language. Seems small but it is major. I think it is high time that we chose a common language for the entire planet.  I think the UN should take a few years to select the best language and maybe a couple of generations to implement it (along with the metric system). From what I know of languages, it should probably be a Latin language. French or Spanish perhaps.
 @KarlH1980  french is extremly hard for non native speaker, and even for native sometimes x) and this two have a colonialist background i'm not sure african and asian countries will be happy to adopt it
@ are you trying to teach the continent where war was born how to do it ?  i'm confuse
​ @firstpostcommenter8078 thats a dumb question. English has became the common language worldwide.
This sounds obvious but the EU is falling apart internally. I wouldn’t be surprised if more countries exit.
He doesn't want your awful countries or land. Stop flattering yourselves.
American here that's all we want is EU to protect itself when we have to deal with China south Korea
😂 Y'all are on one continent with Russia.  Stop playing that dumb game.
​ @studioarc517  😂not in a military settings, communication is crucial to military success.  Plus change of leadership in each country having different opinions. Yet the biggest problem y'all have is money.
 @dylanw1248 bro is all of us Americans this ignorant when everyone leaves America will be left by itself to defend from china Russia and India and Iran they don’t like us
crimea is russian territory from centuries ; educate yourself a lil bit before writing brainwashed comments
​ @pozzyvibes6997 read their Holy book. That will tell you what truly in their hearts.
​@alexandrudascaleanu5429 lol. The EU is close to bankruptcy.  Even having to take money from China. Think belt and roads. You think China built those roads and bridges for free?
And give up your “free” health care???  I don’t think you have the man berries to tighten your belt and do the right thing.
 @PSF1  Everyone owes China money, especially the US, trillion's of dollars. Your point is? All Eu countries need to pool their militaries to form a single unit rather than the multiple separate ones we currently have now!
No, we do not need a European army at all. EU is not a country nor is it a military alliance. What we do need is more investment from Europe into military, that's it. Or, More investments from countries like Germany into border Baltic countries so that they can build up their own military programs.
Ukraine is not in NATO. So stop talking about "Trump wake up call regarding NATO".  THAT is the main issue. Zelensky is an entitled idiot demanding help he does not deserve. He is not an ALLY of the US (or NATO). But he acts like the US and NATO owe him shit.  THAT is the part you all ignore. Because ofcourse you will ignore it... It makes your virtue signaling feel better.  I am also European. And I seem to know this way better than you.
​ @medretav  lmao you literally mean russian leadership isn't independent and is being controlled by NATO. what are you smoking
​ @claudealpha2090 The black speech of Mordor could be the new EU common tongue
​ @stambita5 Finally a comment with common sense, usually everyone is going on about don't budge an inch no treaty it's just appeasement, claiming hypothetical scenarios of Russia attacking the Baltic and Poland next, which doesn't make sense.
Germany's response to the Crimea wakeup call was move forward with the pipeline construction from Russia
​@tento2945 and who will serve in this European Army?  Europeans? I don't think so. You have mandatory service because nobody wants to serve.
You'd better get with it now and waste know time your time a recking is probably coming without the United States backing ya
You'd better get with it now and waste know time your time a recking is probably coming without the United States backing ya
Russia have been invading Ukraine for decades tho?! And in that time Ukraine has never learn how to fix that and stop that.
 @aciidbraiin8079  islam is in America so what’s your point? Islam is the fastest growing religion in the U.S. and the world in general
EXACTLY. Enough with NATO. We should make our own military industry and a European army. This would make us a superpower.
And all this could have been avoided if Europe and the U.N. took the mistreatment of Ethnic Russians in Ukraine seriously as that was the basis for his "special military operation."
The wiser Countries in Europe may want to reconsider donating military assets to an organization that could well be used against them .
As a European, do you believe Europe gets to endlessly insult the US then tell them the US has to send it's kids and economy to you so that you can insult them further?
Europe never can stand up against countries like this remember second war
I agree with your fundamental point, but I don't think Turkey will be a main ally of Europe in times of war. Its occasional strategic cooperation with Russia and tensions with the U.S. suggest it is not a guaranteed ally.  Though a lessened U.S. presence will probably have positive effects on the powers of European nations, as well as on the power-balancing of NATO internally. Complacency has run its course, let European history and dialectics show its foundations.
 @Jesusaross  I get your point, but I  wanted to point out the importantce of modern warfare more then turkey troop power support (i agree with you on that)…Since war actually is about technology, not just alliances. Ukraine has fought bravely, but they haven’t had NATO’s full tech advantage—yet even with limited resources, Bayraktar TB2 drones (~50 drones) destroyed over 100 Russian armored vehicles, supply convoys, and even the Moskva cruiser. They forced Russia to rethink its strategy early in the war.  We don’t know exactly how things would play out without the USA, but NATO’s strength isn’t just troop numbers—it’s superior modern warfare tech, intelligence, and precision weapons - that is not what we see in Ukraine, they mostly fight with outdated warefare, because they dont get it or it takes too long time to learn how to operate with it.
 @Jesusaross  How about Germany's occasional strategic cooperation with Russia and its tensions with the U.S. ?
@ I suppose that's a decent point. Seems like the U.S. tension with Turkey has potentially made its 'non allegiance' more significant in my mind. But there is also a historical hesitancy European nations and citizens have when it comes to Turkey, but that same point could be made when it comes to Germany, or Italy. But I see my own hypocrisy, though countries such as Germany have shown to be more strategically aligned with a coherent Europe since the 1950s. Overall my knowledge about Turkey might be superficial, and perhaps their signaling has been almost paradoxical.
You're right. If the US plays a lesser role Norway and Canada can fill that gap for them. 🤣 You'll love Erdogan, he's a model enlightened European leader. Someone the WEF can have do their bidding.
@ You actually expect Canada to step up? They have not meet their NATO commitment in decades. Good luck depending on them. They went ballistic because the US asked them to slightly increase their border security.
@ Canada would be an unlikely ally indeed, not sure why they were even mentioned. Only if the EU is its main market, would it lend significant aid. Though I doubt directly militarily. (This is under preposition that the US did not respect article 5 of NATO).  I'm not certain why the main commenter named Canada, Turkey, and Norway, while the main forces in Europe will very likely be Germany, France, Poland, Italy, and the UK. Though smaller, but wealthy and specialized in certain areas European countries are also not to be underestimated.
Turkey is the only country you listed that has any REAL power. The rest completely rely on Americas financial and military might. Also Turkey has very close relations with Russia. They even are currently the only country in NATO on Russias friend list. Hmmm... i wonder why. To suppose as though they would themselves would not pull out to ally with Russia the moment America does is asinine.
With what soldiers lol. Europe doesn't have the arms or men to sustain a war.
@ To sustain a war with what, Russia? Also, quite an odd usage of the word 'sustain', for the EU has very strong 'sustainability', it lacks momentum currently though. You think too heavily in the moment. I don't think you understand the rising manpower of Poland, the potential of industry and manpower of Germany, and the current militaries of the UK, France, and Italy. Let alone the smaller nations. There is enough people, wealth, production, and potential for warfare technology (which all these nations also have by the way). If you only want to perceive it as 'nuclear potential' then we are outmatched yes, but you have a completely overblown, black-and-white US-centric view.
Mario Draghi's report on European competitiveness confirms that 78% of Europe's military equipment (tanks, planes, guns, etc) come from outside Europe. 63% is from the US, and the other 15% is from China. Europe needs to ramp up domestic arms production to replace that in order to maintain their current military capabilities without the US. That means diverting a lot of money from everything else. Their social programs would likely take a significant hit. It would also mean massive tax hikes across all of Europe.
I think you missed the point the title of the video is designed as A European defense, Turkey etc is not European it was left out intentionally etc. Think you over stepped your thought process and didn't view the design as it was intended
 @JimiGosu  Europes dependency on USA weapons is largely shaped by NATO commitments, interoperability standards, and security guarantees rather than a lack of domestic manufacturing capability... Despite having five countries in the top 10 arms exporters, EU nations still prefer USA weapons due to strategic trust and logistical integration within NATO. However, if the USA were to reduce its commitment to Europe or impose conditions on arms sales, the EU would likely accelerate defense integration, filling the gaps with French, German, Italian, and UK-made weapons. Europe’s reliance on the USA is currently a strategic choice, not a weakness—but that could change if circumstances force it. France (2nd after the USA) is a global arms powerhouse, but much of its exports go to the Middle East, India, and Southeast Asia..
 @MatisShente  Bayraktar drones are Turkish (It literally means "Flag bearer" in Turkish. Turkish army has a lot of combat capability and experience in modern warfare. It's not made of just infantry.
 @marc22422  the title of video says something different,it questions if “defence of Europe is possible without US”, so leaving out such an important facts that NATO is not just EU and USA is just wrong in my opinion. Especially at time like this when ppl who are not following closely to politics atm and would come to search for some info, would definitely not get a full picture to use their critical thinking and get to some conclusions. So I point that out 😁
You really think Turkey gives a shit about anyone else other then itself?
@ All the EU has to do is increase domestic arms production and grow their economy. they've had nearly a century to do it, but have chosen not to.
@ might be a surprise to you,  but it’s called diplomacy😅, not that anyone care too much about other, but their own intereset. Don’t want to go deep into this complex topic, but just some FACTS to your random comment:  1. Turkey Controls migration flow to Europe: Turkey upholds the EU-Turkey migration deal.  2. EU countries plays a significant role in Turkey’s tourism industry, In terms of tourism revenue, Turkey ranked 7th worldwide in 2023, with earnings of USD 49.5 billion…  3. Turkey Proven Commitment to NATO Missions. 4. Supplied Ukraine with Bayraktar TB2 drones, which played a key role in destroying Russian military targets. Closed the Bosporus and Dardanelles Straits to Russian warships, limiting Moscow’s naval presence in the Black Sea.  SO YEAH maybe there is a possibility that Turkey keep their word and commitment😂
@ pls fact-check your absolutely delulu statement. 🤡😂 AS FOR A FACTS: The EU has some of the largest and most advanced arms manufacturers in the world (Airbus, BAE Systems, Dassault, Rheinmetall) and is the second-largest arms exporter globally after the U.S. As for the economy, the EU has one of the biggest and most developed markets on the planet—it just doesn’t rely on war-driven growth like some others do.
 @MatisShente  Then why is it that only 22% of the EU's weapons are domestically made? The EU has recently committed to increasing domestic arms manufacturing to at least 40%.
It's a very difficult time now and everything is changing very quickly. For example, no one expected that such a meeting would be between Trump and Zelensky 😢
 @harderway8568  russia can fall apart but still exist. And be a threat. So it's a funny contradiction only if you didn't think about it enough
 @harderway8568  In this one it can be. Russia is in a very risky position right now, they have put alot into holding it's economy stable but it's teetring on collapse. It really depends on how and when the Ukraine invasion ends.   If it ends soon and Russia gets a favourable resolution it could set them up to invade deeper into europe through the rest of ukraine, finland and the baltics.  If it continues for significantly or ends with Russia giving ground it would be catastrophic. They already have some things coming closer, the soviet inheritance is likely running out by august and the longer their sanctions stand the more chance that their economy finally topples.  They arent both true right now, but both are very real possibilities dependant on the next year. Its why Russia is so happy with the ridiculous argument, it helps them win faster
Well it is Russia... Look at Stalingrad if you need an example of how Russia can be "falling apart" yet still a threat.
 @Jumbo58067  Wait - so Russia can barely  protect teritories they've occupied, can't move forward, but could invade other countries? You people can't be serious.
@yourmind6848 I expected that sooner or later America would dump Ukraine. You should have been friends with Russia, Putin would definitely not have dumped you.
​@ever611  you give way to much fear and faith I'm Russia.
Russia will be still there after the war but very weak.
Me as a non expert will say that both are over exaggerations. Imo Russia will slowly and steadily adapt and even if it wins the war the amounts of economic stagnation and casualties isnt something to just overlook. NATO(even excluding the US) can do more than stand its ground against Russia and even without one unified chain of command it still has an economy a dozen times that of Russia, a bigger manpower pool and is more politically stable as well as combat ready.
​ @Jumbo58067  why Russia will invade small territories in Europe (the Baltics, etc.) with alt most no resources and with the risk that they will be defended by Nato escalating a big war, when they can invade all central Asia up to Afghanistan, and Mongolia, etc. , that are much bigger territories with much more resources, if they really want to invade someone ?!?!
America isn’t falling and has triple amount of all European countries combined .. add Russia as the new American friend I think Europe made major mistake
 @BlueBblu  Be Russia's neighbor and you will find out, that they will never change. Yeah, not now, but sooner or later, like the sun comes up from the East, absolutely predictable! Educate yourself with some common sense!
 @stambita5  Same as now, the unthinkable happened. So they need to rest, and yes, it takes time, the next will be the Caucasus, they will try easy targets before they fully recover and deploy to the Baltic weak point later.
You have to take into account the chinese factor. If China financially full supports russia or not at all, regarding their interest at that time. And everything in between. So you have 2 extremes scenarios
@ Because thats what its fine for the last ten years under Putin.  Why are you not paying attention? Y’all take pride in your ignorance.
ucrane is not winning this war! In fact this war is over, ucrane has already lost! It is just a matter of how the politicians will bring it to an end!
It's both at the same time. It's the worst about weak enemies. They can do scary shit.
You do know how propaganda works, right?  And that it's being used by both sides, not just Russia, right?
Experts: Baltic states at risk of invasion from the thousands of tanks russia is building. Non experts: So why is russia losing hundreds of men a day just holding their position in Ukraine while Ukraine also holds russian territory for months in Kursk and putin doesn’t have the strength to push them out?
@ever611 No not really. If he’s losing big in Ukraine how will he have the manpower and equip to invade Europe? Is he living to 159?
@AHistorically Exactly. Russia is winning and will want n. Ukraine are running out of men. It will come at a cost though and Russia will be in no position to fight nato
​ @hyy3657 Ironic. You should go read up on the history. Secondly just because the sun rises in the east doesn't mean it will always ~ David Hume.
same thing with china, it's just playing both sides to see if fear mongering or arrogance resonates with the voterbase better.
​@yourmind6848 We all knew Trump was going throw Ukraine under the bus
No, its perfectly fine to hold both positions.Russia has always been like that.
 @yeetbra9485  What a stupid example. For your info: whole Europe fell apart before that and the Soviet Union stopped that (over 80% of the german army was defeated by th soviets, the western allies together did very little in comparison and mainly mass murdered civilians with fire bomings of cities).
 @TheOKCTEP  That was the case before the coup and the reason the coup happened. Western fascism didnd't like that the Ukrainian government wa against selling out its country and people to the west.  The treaty it wanted Ukraine to sign was just horrible for Ukraine, so the democratic government didn't. So the west financed a coup and at the very first day after the coup, the coup regime sold Ukraine out. It's the reason why south and east Ukraine, who were hit the most by that, didn't accept that illegal coup and coup regime, so NATO told the regime to send its army to make them fall in line.  Big parts of the army did not want to follow, though, attacking their own people, especially for such a sick reason and many even changed sides and defende the people against this. Crimea was the most lucky in this regard, able to get protection and by able to avoid all this bloody insanity.  Donbass menwhile suffered for eight years before Russia intervened - but as fascists are, they didn't stop and why should the care if Ukraine dies? That's its job in their sick PoV.
Lol usonians belive everything they say to them to scare them, even if it sounds ridiculous
​@yourmind6848 why you didn't expect that. For 20 years we have been shouting that US is an ally of none,but people keep calling us terrorist. Its nothing unusual in our experience.
@yourmind6848 everyone who has eyes, ears, and a brain between them expected exactly such an outcome. But obviously it is forbidden to have eyes, ears, and a brain in Europe now.
Are you high? No "expert" EVER said that Ukraine would win. They were all saying the opposite 🤣😂
​ @harderway8568  most of Russia's army is not in Ukraine or even being used for the invasion. Due to how supply and logistics work they can only fit so much of their military into the theater. Not to mention they want to have the rest of their borders maintained in case of a NATO response whether thats realistic or not.
 @italiansandvich6  Fair enough, but then you can't have "Russia collapsing, no weapons, no manpower" argument.
Right ! Russia is a strong country indeed . If not for funding and supply the Ukrainian, Russian war would have been over along time ago .
A country that's falling apart isn't going to go quietly, and death throes are usually military.
I still don't know if eggs are bad or good for me. Experts say what the people who pay them want them to.  It is job security.  They aren't lying, they are just giving slanted facts.
@yourmind6848cry more kiddo, learn and educate yourself about this conflict and stop whining
The thing is both are true and go hand in hand.  Russia is weak and could fall apart, which means it's volatile and needs resources. The only way to get those resources is VIA militant action due to globalized tarrifs and frozen assets. They have no money, they have no food, and anyone/anything backed into a corner like this tends to lash out.
@yourmind6848 Oh many were expecting something bad. Not like this, but close. Because it's not like it was shiny between them before.
For Ukraine "WINNING" means AVOID THE OCCUPATION OF THEIR COUNTRY AND SURVIVING. For Russia "WINNING" means the ANNIHILATION OF UKRAINE!The fact that putin is still holding power NO MATTER what is both a threat for us in the West&Central Europe AS WELL AS a major destabilizing element for the russians themselves. What happened recently is TRUMP GIVING PUTIN A SHOULDER TO HOLD ON TO. Which side are YOU on??
 @different_stuff  A country can't fall apart and be a threat so just pick one. Also it's a funny contradiction if you bother to think about it for 5 seconds.
 @yeetbra9485  You do know Russia back then relied on the US?
 @MetaKnight964  i said it can fall apart partially but still exist. Think bozo
Are you the kind of pseud that saw Russia fail to take Ukraine immediately and chalk it up to some attrition strategy
​@jurijnabukov9123 are you saying you have an all encompassing knowledge of Russian history? Lol
 @different_stuff  It can only be a threat in a nuclear sense, If Russia falls apart it cannot be a threat in a conventional military conflict.
 @unyieldingmonotony4453  i guess you are nuclear immune? I don't understand your demagogy, if you, essentially, proved my words just now with your own example.
That is because the narrative changes according to in which direction should the people be misinformed this week.
Well Russia has Ukrainean soldiers in Kursk so can't be up to much
​ @different_stuff your brain is funny and not in a good way. Cut down on mainstream media.
@yourmind6848 Everybody that payed any attention to Zelensky and the vibe surrounding him knew. I'm from Poland and there is already an opinion that Ukrainians are extremely demanding and ungrateful.
​@yourmind6848  😂 maybe zelensky should learn to be thankful and stay quiet
 @Jumbo58067  When was the last time Ukraine took any ground and held it for more than two seconds......it was at the very beginning of the war......Russia isn't collapsing .....Wagner isn't taking over ......the weak Europeans are not sending troops they don't have......and on and on.
 @harderway8568  They did exactly this for decades during the soviet era.
​ @harderway8568 the issue is mobilisation. There's talk of the core Russian army not wanting to be deployed under a deranged putin. That's why he had to use ex cons and old men against Ukraine. It's much easier to convince men to defend their homeland than to go and die taking another. Russia has mass poverty and people don't trust putin. He's a dictator. So Russia might have internal issues when trying to deploy their actual army.
​ @harderway8568 no both statements are true. It isn't a linear simple situation, it requires much more complex analysis.
​@yourmind6848 I'm sorry my Ukrainian friend. But it's time for Americans to look out for themselves. They have their own problems to deal with. I'm sorry your president will not get this ceasefire
@harderway8568 What that means is Russia needs a ceasefire just as much Ukraine to build back up their supplies. In 6-12 months, they can be ready to finish the job completely without the securities Zelensky is asking for. So yes, the answer can be true! Ukraine is the biggest country, the others are the size of States in the US. But you the smart one.
It was actually very close. Do we need to remind you about the rebellion that happened during the war?
 @harderway8568  Europe has not been at war since 1945, a full-scale war in the region would result in the deaths of at least several thousand people, even if Russia loses it, unless you are a person who throws human lives around indiscriminately, you must recognize that this is a huge threat.
 @leonsteinberg6965  Love from Serbia bro, I spent some time living in Munchen.
I think he is going Middle East it’s in the Bible !
 @JeanMarcLentini    Actually, Russia’s 🇷🇺 military is much stronger today than it was at the start of the war.  They’re strong and battle tested.   They will be even stronger at the end of the war.  Plus, their wartime industry has grown exponentially.  They’re producing more weapons and munitions than they have at any time since the breakup of the Soviet Union.   Your logic is very flawed, and doesn’t make any sense.
My argument is if Russia is falling apart NOW, how is it going to win in Ukraine and move onto other European nations ?
​@eag11e  Ukraine has won the war, it now needs protection to stop Putin starting up again, we need a Eurpean  peace keeping army IN UKraine
harder cant fathom multiple things can be true at the same time
 @desfletc   Ukraine has won the war???  What kind of alternate universe are you living in ?    So Russia occupies 20% of Ukraine …, and has even began to develop (i.e. new construction) the new territories it annexed.  But you say Ukraine “won” the war!   I’ve never seen propaganda (msm) have such a devastating effect like it has on today’s gullible public.  And you are a prime example!
 @desfletc  It Won't, it doesn't wont but explain that to people who watch the bbc news.
I agree. Sending troops in the first month would have ebpnded this war!
First Europe needs to integrate more and have a common foreign policy. And since this will never happen, we need a new European defense agreement outside NATO, only with those who are willing.
I am Polish and I bet average French or Spanish could not care less about my country's freedom. We have been there before.
​ @francoiscamy5066 the populist amd the far right nationalist cared about European way of life against radical islamists and communism,their borders against dangerous migrants so i dont know why are you blaming the populist when its the liberals are letting this kinds of things wreck their nations
It is highly unlikely and even though I like this video it misses the point. The threat move the burden of security onto Europe was just a negotiating tactic.   This whole thing is meant to bring pressure on the citizens of Europe and to hold them accountable for doing some of the legwork. There is very little chance the US is leaving Europe anytime soon.   For anyone who thinks that this tactic is aggressive or rude, I would consider that there were much more aggressive and rude tactics and this is one of the more subtle friendly ones.
How's migrant situation there? EU leaders should care situation inside their countries much more.
U.S should come out of NATO, not intervene in European matters. Europeans can tc of themselves. Good luck europe.
 @gordoncheswick4169  nobody will stop you from going to the Frontline 😉
3 years.... Europe has been begging for help for the last 110+ years...
 @Blanka1100  not true... I am portuguese, and I understand you. like I understand the ukrainian. we must build the european army...
@ Article 5 of Nato was only invoked once, after 9/11. My country was there for USA and did not send an invoice to Washington.
Agreed. Had we sent large numbers of troups within the first 6 months after they invaded ukraine, we wouldnt have this discussion today.
The American army will not leave Europe peacefully, especially when it's not part of NATO
Lets say EU people unite so I move from Romania to Sweden. What language should I speak. How do I deal with basic stuff like Administration, Judiciary, Higher education, Banking services, Income tax filing, any future EU army, etc. So unless EU officially has a common link language for these basic stuff, EU will be weak.  India (English), China (Standard Mandarin), USA (English), etc have the common link language officially for basic stuff like Administration, Judiciary, Higher education, Banking services, Income tax filing, etc
I think the reason we need to be cautious about being directly involved is its nuclear fall out right? I don't think anyone wants that, de-escalation may be the better way instead of 3WW.
 @Blanka1100  Well US will honor article 5 but not be 80% of the force as NATO wasn`t even 15% of the forces in Afghanistan or Iraq. We are not asking NATO to fight Russia alone but considering their economies are in parity to the US, they should be bearing a much bigger burden in their own self defense. And Ukrianie in not part of NATO so we have no obligation to them. And they have no value for US interests unlike Taiwan with their chip manufacturing or Japan or  South Korea  with their economies tied to ours. Europe is more tied to Ukraine economically and geographically so they should bear the brunt of defending it.
@ It is so easy to give up somebody else's land and freedom, right? Would you give up yours? Alaska used to be russian at one poin, you know? All I see on Trump's side is victim blaming. He admires Putin. He would like to be like him.
Yeah, the Dutch government has been lacking in investing in defense and we were invaded twice!! It’s just sloppy
 @lb9029 Australia and Japan will never go to war against Russia, why would they? They are allies with the USA
 @BarsusDraco  yeah if you would have sent troops no discussion would be happening now, we all would be dead
I kind of think its probably the other way europe since poland wasnt really euro-friendly the Last years. ​ @Blanka1100 
@ as for japan: they really, really do not like russia, please just read up on it. As for Australia, I suspect that being “allies” with them is as fragile right now as the US’s relationship with Europe, and they might choose to side with Europe since the US situation is too unpredictable and unstable (plus they are not exactly a fan of the mess trump is making). And everyone needs allies.
 @dr.livesey7595  Poland's unfriendly government was voted out in 2023 if you have not noticed yet.
 @Blanka1100  I know, but a lot of the voters are still there? I know that poland is a lot more nationalist compared to western countries in Europe. As a german i know i would fight for poland in Case of russian attacks, but im absolutly unsure about the other way around.
The question is, why didn't Europe realize 10 years ago, or 20 or 30, that they need to defend themselves??? Must be some kind of joke.
So true... every euro country think they are no 1 in class.. ​ @Blanka1100 
 @joeiborowski9763  trump just said he wont intervene for taiwan. He said he wont honor article 5 either
Europe should have increaed their military spending in these 3years  But only germany and france has increased or atleast thought abt it
Africa has billions of people but Europe would ragdoll them in 5 days, what’s ur point
 @firstpostcommenter8078  In Sweden you receive government services in English also. But of course you still need to learn the language eventually. Same should be the case elsewhere too.
 @adameve2647  you have problem with "radical isamists" but not "radical right wing"?
I have hope, our inaction has mostly been because we believed the US was still the US it was. The last few days has shown the world the US can no longer be relied on, we need to step up
with what army bro, do you even know anyone in your life who went to army or held a gun before? Europe doesn't have soldiers who will be willing to fight with battle hardened Russian army, this is not a video game, this is real life and in real life people die fighting in the war, you guys all talk about as if we have robots fighting for us lol. If it comes down to it will you go in the trenches for months and fight for not even your country but for Europe? Also what happens when China and NK comes into the game? They have armies who are ready to fight as well, US army is also consistently in wars thus they are also ready to fight but Europe? No chance, only UK and France will have a functioning army and it wont take long until they also get overrun. This is what happened to France in WW2, they had soldiers, they had equipments, they had weapons, they had allies they had everything they needed, but when the soldiers arent willing nothing gets done, and who can blame French soldiers in WW2? War is hell and I personally wouldn't want to fight in one.
Tell me about it. I'm British and never felt more annoyed and betrayed by my own country when they pushed for Brexit. The UK is european, it always has been, thousands of years spent fighting alongside, against, spilling blood with our european neighbours we have always been involved. Then pretending we can just do stuff on our own? Europe should be strong, united, including the UK. A strong unified Europe would be a powerhouse, but we are fractured by deluded politicians acting like we don't need each other.
@ It is so easy to demand others to pay for in money and blood for your land. The point is the US doesn't need anyone to help them to defend Alaska. We are strong enough through decades of military spending and research that has indebted our kids for generations to come.  Until you make that sacrifice, don't expect a free ride.
You are not swede... I just don't believe swedes would be serious about an idea putin invading sweden. Just whaat? Laughable
And the average Polish citizen cares about Spanish people’s freedom? Give me a break
​ @Blanka1100 the u.s.a absolutely did not need anyone's help especially in that battle.
I'm commenting from outside Europe, but wouldn't the other European countries getting involved escalate into a major war i.e Belarussia and other Russian allies(the few there may be) also junping in and having perhaps an veen deadlier war on their hands
Sweden as Eu countries are too busy with climate and gender questions, Sweden has own war with criminal that they can't win, how do you expect to go to war.
If only EU countries paid their fair share in Nato this video would not be necessary.
 @Blanka1100  I don't agree. Poland IS part of Europe, Ucraine is not. Poland IS a democratic country with values that are similar to mine, Ucraine is NOT and does NOT fulfil the standards to enter the EU both economically and politically. And Donbass was even more foreign to me, as in Donbass the population was already fighting to be annexed to Russia way before the invasion (even if, of course, that was due to Russian propaganda, I'm well aware of it). I'm all for defending a country against an invasion! Europe MUST defend its values of freedom all over the world. But let's not forget that the only reason we really care about Ucraine is to defend our borders, because Ucraine, culturally and economically, is NOT a European country. Poland and the Baltics ARE European countries. That is a big difference.
Hey sweedey man how's all the muslims you let in lol.
 @mysticone1798  It's because for the last 70 plus years they have relied on American and it's military as a primary defense force.
​ @mysticone1798 30 years ago was the fall of SSSR, end of communism and first unification of West and East Europe. The political systems before that were opposing and they were not working together. Since the WW2, Germany wasn't allowed to build up their army, and was kept down by the US (for understandable reasons). That's why there are so many US  military bases in Germany until now. The whole point of NATO was to prevent another war and work together. Until now, the US was sharing their values with the Europe and were playing on the same side.
 @silviebee  You forgot the most important part of the story.  Following the fall of the USSR, the NATO alliance had no purpose.  Instead of disbanding it, they altered NATO from a defensive alliance to an offensive one, and used it to undermine Russia.  In 2014, NATO began to provoke the war with the Maidan Coup, then followed up by killing ethnic Russians in the Donbas, and then ignoring the Minsk Accords that could have prevented war.  In short, NATO always wanted the proxy war against Russia.  There!  Fixed it for you!
 @lb9029  Australia and Japan have their hands full with an increasingly assertive China (3 Chinese warships just held a live fire exercise just off the Australian coast).  Canada’s military is pathetically weak.
@ if anything, that means they’d be very eager to join such an alliance, don’t you think?
 @silviebee  If NATO didn’t expand eastward, we wouldn’t have today’s conflict.  In fact, Russia even tried to join NATO after the fall of the USSR but was rejected.  NATO made its own bed but now refuses to lie in it.   I’m not saying the US isn’t a guilty party.  The Maidan Revolution was orchestrated by Victoria Nuland, the CIA, the State Department and funded by USAID.
​ @mysticone1798 I responded to your previous comment "why Europe hasn't realized that it has to defend itself 30 years ago?". I'm quite familiar with the history, but thank you for your input. I'm from Eastern Europe (Bosnia, to be more precise). I lived through a war and would never recommend it to anyone. My country still hasn't recovered from the war that ended 30 years ago and our people are scattered throughout the world. I wish that there is no NATO, or that there is no need for NATO. Eastern European countries wanted to join NATO and they never trusted Russia, because of their experiences. Russia is in war all over it's borders with the countries of the former USSR, so no wonder that their neighbors want protection from NATO. I'm personally a pacifist, and was naive, believing that in the 21st century we won't have wars for territory. I still have hope that this will not escalate and it will be possible to stop the war in Ukraine, even without the US involvement. Every lost life is a tragedy. And lives are being ruined with every additional day of the war.
Europe better start using diplomacy not war. We are in this shitty place because we have been Americas proxi-army poppy.
No they cannot, Russia is unstoppable and only USA aid able hold them
 @powervr  And who will command that European army? Ursula von der Coruption? Blondy from Estonia? Wait, wait...I know! Some Fieldmarshall from Germany, it worked last time, right?
 @silviebee  OK, your opinion is well taken. I happen to disagree.  Ever since the fall of the USSR, Europe has had its Neocon warmongers who wanted to dissolve Russia and loot it of its vast resources.  This is the core motivation for the attacks on  Russia.  All of the conflicts you mention were provoked and organized by Europeans, including the present war in Ukraine, each in turn forcing Russia to enter into a conflict to defend itself.  After the fall of the USSR, a fateful decision was made by Europe.  That is, instead of becoming trading partners and having friendly relations with Russia, they chose to take an aggressive stance instead, with the goal of destabilizing Russia.  All attempts at this agenda have failed, none more miserably than the Ukraine War.  In fact, the Russians were quite stunned at the decision by Europe to remain adversaries / enemies, and several Russian leaders at the time have recalled those days, which in retrospect they see as tragic.  Believe what you wish.  What I believe is that Europe, both its leaders and its citizens, are getting everything they deserve.
​@Jumbo58067 it's not our problem..we are not the cops of the world.
​ @Life-w7n We in Denmark lost a holiday to fund our military, or so was the excuse for cancelling the holiday. So that can be added to the list
AGREE! The European Army is necessarily. Stop the bureaucracy in EU, and start the EU-ARMY now!   Greetings from Denmark
You won't spend 6% of gdp to do it.  The US said they won't help people who say they are allies when they don't act like allies
Clearly you’ve never been to a frontline 😂USA is your daddy 😂🤦
No he didnt! He refused to comment on US protecting Taiwan just like EVERY US president before him.
 @Blanka1100 Poland is loved in the United States. No way we don’t come if Russia invades you guys.
​@Blanka1100  I am American, we care about your freedom. I'm always impressed with your government.
Central/Eastern Europe and Scandinavia seem to be the only countries taking this seriously.
 @silviebee The German military was actually quite formidable by the time the USSR fell apart. They’ve let it go in a big way, however.
Too many DEI hires in your gov. We fell behind too
Three years? Lmao. Try thirty. Ever since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Europe completely ignored it's own defense, effectively subsidizing it out to the US, as if the US owed them. As far back as his first term, DJT was insisting that Europe should make moves to pull their own weight in NATO instead of completely relying on the US, but it was considered as highly problematic idea.
 @Blanka1100  no ones care and will not care because Poland is not even a country
 @thevains  So what is it, Ivan? I know for sure Russia is a gas station, not a super power.
It is frightening to see the Orange One fangirling over the Grem Dictator.
​ @Blanka1100 ok, so you guys picked up a tip for once. The US has covered the tab for 80 years.
@Blanka1100 we as Americans love the national pride of the Polish people. The way they protect their borders and their people. To bad the rest of europe doesn't follow your lead
 @bluray4687  80 years? For Western Europe only, not for my country of Poland.
@Blanka1100  yes, Western Europe. Poland has taken care of itself. Americans love the Polish people. You have a strong national pride, defend your borders and people
That is because labor parties are known to be anti-military parties that always cut drastically military spendings. In Finland Tarja Halonen almost destroyed our entire defense line while she got paid by russia
As an American conservative who supports Trump, I agree with you 100%.
There must be a day when the EU/ECB Bond issue/debt levels catch up with them.
EU's bigger weakness is not officially having a common link language.  Lets say EU people unite so I move from Romania to Sweden. What language should I speak. How do I deal with basic stuff like Administration, Judiciary, Higher education, Banking services, Income tax filing, any future EU army, etc. So unless EU officially has a common link language for these basic stuff, EU will be weak.  India (English), China (Standard Mandarin), USA (English), etc have the common link language officially for basic stuff like Administration, Judiciary, Higher education, Banking services, Income tax filing, etc
 @firstpostcommenter8078  English. You can speak English to anyone in Sweden just fine
 @Screwdriver1234  Think about it this way, each European union member is a member of your family, alone they have varying amounts  of money, but together you have more money than your next door rich neighbor.. But lets say some of your family members felt like they were being treated unfairly , doing more, or what was supposed to be done hurt them more... And then oop, something came up and they don't do their part... OR lets say you're supposed to make a payment, but then you forget to do so as a family member.. Well you guys get the point. the EU is only united in name only. That is the big problem now, the big problem the US has with them in NATO, and will be the biggest problem in eu's future.
 @firstpostcommenter8078  It's the same problem that the Austro-Hungarian Empire had, that made it much weaker in WW1 than it should have been on paper.
About militar content, EU should build a militar EU parliament, to all our national generals, vote for a EU army "government" and to follow their orders until the next militar leadership vote again.  If we keep militar leadership from civilian vote, we have a  more militar goal eficiency vote on what really matter.  Remember that all nations of the world with democratic governments, only have the national army above the constitutioin, to make governments to obey to constitution or to realize bad constitution and free the nation from constitution traps and write a new constitution without that traps.  Militar structure must always be apart of civilian vote governments full control.  Political and Finantial issues, to civilian vote. Militar issues for the militar structures, with loyality to civilian government as while it is the best for the majority of the citizens.
 @tartoflan  How will I deal with Judiciary, Banking services, income tax filing, higher education, etc?
 @firstpostcommenter8078   Language is not the problem and more and more people can use English. Switzerland has a population speaking different languages (German, French and Italians) and it's not a problem. The same situation in Belgium or Canada.
​@Screwdriver1234 yeah..that's why Germany keeps the Russian Economy going with natural gas purchases lol. 500% in 2024 alone 😂  You Europeans are living in lulu land.
 @gontrandjojo9747  Language is indeed the problem. You are dense. Why are you giving examples of waste countries like Canada or Belgium? Talk about powerful countries like India, USA, China, etc. Why is the video talking about Europe then, let it talk about individual countries. If EU wants to be strong then EU citizens like me should feel that all EU member country citizens are united. How can I feel united if I cannot even move within EU and do basic stuff like banking services, income tax filing, higher education, jobs, etc
I could be wrong but don't most EU member states now use english as the "binding language"?
Ah yes, if only we had America's renowned political unity lol
The Unites States also has fiscal disunity to some extent as each state can set its own taxes and spending (however with much smaller budgets than the US government). A common miltary would help.
​ @firstpostcommenter8078  It's functionally English. Wether official or not most the most common secondary language is English. All NATO officers speak English as the NATO command operates in English. Which likely trickles down in other places of government.
 @Screwdriver1234  Only 17x ?? hahahaha Sounds like you're referring to some specific criterion there?
Considering the history each nation has and the wide spectrum of political attitudes from different corners of the EU, I think what they've done to unify IN PEACETIME is remarkable. I have no doubt that in anticipation of war and a need for self-reliance, the common interests of european nations will cause everyone to suddenly get along quite swimmingly. France and Poland, Italy and Germany, even those outside the EU like Switzerland and the UK, everyone has very strong incentives to work together and unify in the coming months and years.
The fiscal unity wouldn't be a problem if it weren't for its monetary unity.
 @Screwdriver1234 they really aren’t, Russia is self sufficient while Britain will literally starve if they don’t import food
@jascrandom9855 Yes and no as this is also its strength. Decision making is complicated. The diversity of culture and language in Europe is the largest blocker to unity.
 @firstpostcommenter8078  while it may not be popular, many people in Europe can speak English. That's the link language
 @alexander-xj2nn  being that, there is almost no unity in how US wealth is spent. More than half Americans don't have what they need financially.
 @DoctorCyan  the COVID response is a good indication of this. Despite some very marked failures, the common scientific and social cooperation across the EU was strong
 @johnhayton6847  I know that its the link unofficially. I am asking about official purpose so that one can do basic stuff like higher education, banking services, income tax filing, etc
You forgot Russian military culture appears to be different from Europe's. Europe will not stand for sending it's young to a meat-grinder.  Plus, Europe cannot afford a well equipped military and a good welfare state, UNLESS it increases taxes.
 @firstpostcommenter8078 you’re comparing singular countries with a union of countries. Not the same thing.
 @murpho999  Correct. Its the EU that tries to behave like a country and OP who compares them with countries by talking about army. EU is a union of countries so EU will always be weak and its fine. OP should not have made this video. Anyone can exit EU or even disband EU. No biggy
Got in in ONE..  fantastic comment.. brilliant analysis . 👍👍
I dont want my country to be commanded by some foreign government in Bruxels
​ @firstpostcommenter8078 nations come before europe anyday everyday. Therefor i wont abandon my nation and language for a foreign one for sure
I'm Canadian so this is just my own perception but the EU isn't that different from federations such as Canada US and Russia. Our states and provinces are essentially countries, with distinct cultures dynamic industries and differing values.   I mean look at the USAs name. It is 'united states of America' almost like a 'union of states'.
 @imean5399  But Canada was never divided in Nations, its just regions, and, with all due respect, canada is here since 1867. My country is here since 1143.. We have our language, culture etc. We have nothing to do with other europeans expect a continent. I would not agree to a Federation. I dont want Germans, French or Belgiums to have any saying in how my country works
@imean5399  The EU is a Confederation of Nation/States. Unlike Canada or the US, the "Central Goverment" in Brussels doesn't have an enforcement mechanism over its members.
 @alexander-xj2nn  Its not the same as with the EU. The US Federal Government is independent from the States, as it can collect its own Taxes, maintain military forces and law enforcement agencies, and enforce its laws upon its member States. Thats not the case with the EU, in which the EU depends on voluntary contributions from its member States and has no real enforcement mechanism.
 @7hi5on35  Not talking about Language or Culture, but Politcal and Fiscal unity.
@jascrandom9855  Yes there are differences. Canada Russia and US are federal governing bodies while the EU is a regional governing body. That being said, the relationship between federal and state/provincial government is itself complicated. In Canada, Quebec actually holds veto power. Theres also the senate where representation is based on province. Supreme Court where representation is based on province. And a very clear distinction between federal government, and provincial government. The differences between federalism and regionalism are less distinct than a republic vs constitutional monarchy. Still we can make comparisons between USA and the UK all the same.
 @RUHappyATM  Europe absolutely can do both, and it does. Europe has a disunity problem, which leads to redundancy of disparate systems and R&D for military forces, as well as strategic priorities. The EU is very much capable of equipping and training its forces to the same levels as the US. Europeans will fight if their own lives and freedom are directly threatened.  Also side note: the EU doesn't spend as much on Healthcare as the US does. Buts that's another Ted Talk.
 @dedeferreira98  You personal opinion of the idea of a federal europe isn't the only one. The rest of your compatriotas must also be consulted, as you might find your self in the minority. In my opinion, ideally the EU would be a Federated Direct Democracy like Switzerland.
 @imean5399  Does the Federal government in Canada consult the Provinces when it comes to matters of Foreign policy or Military action?
 @gregnorth6413  is that why the euro is stronger than the dollar
​ @imRehnzy  I moved to Germany and have had a really hard time finding people who can or are willing to speak  English. A lot of doctors don't speak English. Workers in the banks don't speak English and not everyone in the immigration office speaks English. Conclusion: You still have to speak the local language unless you are just traveling there.
 @jascrandom9855  Most of my countrymen dont even like the EU itself.. The idea of having foreigners telling us what to do is crazy. We didnt fought for our independence for this.
@Khalifadoobleedoo  That's shocking to hear, I'd have thought Germany was up there with the most natural English speakers. Here I guarantee very few people could not hold a basic conversation in English.
@dedeferreira98  Ya'll voted for this when you joined. Also polls say that Portugal would vote join the EU again by 84%. So it might be just you and your social circle who disagree.
They’re a bunch of countries with different values and cultures. They don’t make sense as political structure, only an economic one.
 @firstpostcommenter8078 I guess it’s just a union for the nations’ elites. They all speak English and or German.
@Alex-uo6kh  That's why we talk about a Federal Europe, not a Unitary Europe.
Dumbest comment ever. Have you ever heard of world War II?​ @firstpostcommenter8078 
 @jascrandom9855  Join the EU is one thing. Join a federation is another. 100% certain people here wont vote for a federation, in fact, i see it as giving up our independence so no..
 @Dogmeat1950 😂😂😂 exactly and the Germans all laughed when Trump called them out for relying on the Russians! Look back in history can you trust the Russian you can but I wouldn’t
@dedeferreira98  Polls say otherwise.  Don't project your own opinion onto others.
 @ohdude6643  Or Arabic. Anyone can blabber anything. What is EU official common link language
 @dedeferreira98  That’s probably because it’s mostly Americans commenting that think they understand Europe. It might have something to do with Trump insulting most of Europe and Trump supporters being parrots and doing the same thing 🤷‍♂️
 @justinpetersen5273  Socialism isn’t a thing here in America. I’m tired of hearing it.  Are there socialist in America, yeah of course. America has a population of 350 million. The percentage of socialist would be far below a percentage point compared to other political parties. When people use the word  “socialism” like you do it just means they don’t understand what the word means both by definition or when it’s used contextually.with other words.
 @Alex-uo6kh It’s a union for alliance, economic cooperation and to prevent future wars. It’s kinda what happens after two world wars happened there. Without a union Europes just a powder keg waiting to explode. If war does start it wont be their fault it will be Russias and North Koreas since they have a pact now.
I wonder what Merkel and Schäuble might have done about that...
​ @willievanderwalt7226  the Euro is barely stronger than the dollar and that's because there's way more dollars in circulation, if the supply was equal the dollar would be way stronger but still the dollar remains the world's reserve currency
 @Screwdriver1234  really, do you know how much atomic bombs Russia has?
the weakness of the EU in maintaining the conflict, the explosion of the Nord Stream and the madness of politicians clinging to war
 @firstpostcommenter8078   I've lived in 4 different European (EU) coutnries and my wife is from a 5th one that i never lived in. The barriers you are mentioning are not as big as you think they are. We are united by common values. I assume you never moved out of the USA to think this is such a big problem.
 @ArrayofSunshine-mu5fx  We are all Earth people so we all already have certain common values. . No barrier is big enough. Infact even non-European countries should be allowed to join the EU. But I know many people who did not move to other EU country because of language issue. So I don't care what you personally were able to do because EU strength will not rely on you alone but whole EU peoples. Not having a common link language is inconvenient and will not bring unity within EU peoples. Why will a Romanian feel united with a German. One cannot move to another place and live. Its very inconvenient
 @Screwdriver1234  Not to mention better training in every single area, including military.
It is. However, it is a political mistake, not a belief of the populace.
To be fair the US is the only NATO nation to ever invoke Article 5.
​@Miner-dyne   The US government needs to put its people first and fix the spending problem and make sure our cities are fixed and crime is down. They can't do that when worrying about Europe.   Be like Japan and South Korea. If Canada and Europe invested far more heavily in the USA than we can talk.
@miner dyne It is the populace tbh, most people seemed to believe it wasn't really necessary to maintain and invest in military capabilities. Let's not pretend its just the politicians.  Also, rearming will be hard, especially when we already have wartime levels of national debt and deficits from other spending.
@ correct. Not just the politicians. Its most of the populace and the politicians that were living in this weird illusion that “war isn’t of this time, it’s something of the past” (or of Africa or something)  That was always a crazy weird and naive idea to me
 @SvalPlays  No, the US did not ask for that.  It was the North Atlantic Council that did that.  The NAC is made up of representatives of every NATO member.
Also the EU  has about 450 million plus 70 million in the UK. 520 million but they need the U.S to defend against Russia who has 140 million.
 @evacody1249 And be like Israel. It held its own against hostile Nations like Palestine, Iran, Yemen and Lebanon for many years, with minimal US Troop involvement. The country is also very serious about developing its defence capabilities, and the IDF is probably the mightiest military in the Middle East, despite Israel being a small country. This is why the US Government respects Israel so much.
 @sweetcandysugaarmy8480 also have to put in the difference of enemies. Who was Israel against again? I’ll wait…
 @SvalPlays  Yes yes yes. Do you think that the Soviet Union would have attacked Western Europe if NATO had not existed and had the US as an strategic ally? It is called deterrence for a reason. Plus the NATO forces used in Iraq and Afghanistan were extremely limited.
 @SvalPlays  not at all. In 2000 NATO members invoked the article 5 to help the US but their help was refused.
 @evacody1249  Good luck with doing all of that. When you actually manage any of it, for example, reducing crime by not having a convicted criminal as your president, feel free to try sitting at the adults table again.
Finally! Thank you! Hugs from an american tax payer… thank u for understanding
@ sadly I am far from being majority opinion ;)  Majority opinion is complaining about America “meddling” all over the world and at the same time complaining when America points out European slagging
 @evacody1249  You think those Billionaires in the Cabinet and the GOP are going to look after the poor . Sad
As a American tax payer, I'm tired of you Europe's benefiting from our military and enjoying free health care while we, the American tax payer, fund essentially fund it. America has enough problems and our taxes and resources need to be used for us. Not Europe.
@ i would say however it is in your interest to keep American power projected abroad. With cooperation of nato allies in service of America and those allies. Bur yes, European Nato allies ABSOLUTELY NEED to fix their own military power
 @jordanhurst4460  Even if you stop giving a penny to Europe your healthcare system will still be abysmal because its a business, but good luck I guess.
Yes and our people here in America are tired of politicians sending money to you guys  So of course we are going to vote for the president who want to force Europe to pay its own military bills to be our allies
@bigbuj7303  Burn, I guess. You're missing the point I'm making genius. I'm saying that European countries can afford luxuries like free health care because they're not spending billions on their militaries like the US is. The United States military secures and protects European countries so why would Europe pay for something the US provides them for free? Europeans have been privileged but that's going to come to an end.
We pay more for our own defense than the US does. As it should be. But im really sick of americans acting like they are paying for all of it, or mirepresenting stats about NATO, where they intentionally or out of ignorance confuse contribution to overall military spending, with NATO funding, to make it seem like the US pays for everything. It's just annoying to talk to dumb and uneducated people like that, and yes im just venting a bit of frustration right now.
NATO has pretty much only been a positive thing for the US. It gave them huge influence in Europe, it contained one of their main rivals during the cold war and afterwards too, it could call on these allies to help out in their middle east endeavours, it caused Europeann to buy more US military equipment than they otherwise would have, ...  In no way has NATO been more a burden than benefit to the US at any point, only people who don't realize the soft power and advantages NATO brings to the US think NATO isn't good for the US.
Oh please. They never gave a ish to begin with 😂 they've always only ever looked out for number 1. Come on.
 @SvalPlays   to be fair  ... I thought the North Atlantic Council met and invoked it
 @SvalPlays  Thats because we were attacked and are hated around the world because we are leaned on or expected to be the Worlds police. If we just minded our business and only worried about our country Europe would be speaking russian ..And we wouldnt be 30 trillion in debt.
​ @Yamyatos What damn charts are you looking at??? The USA covers 75% of natos budget ALONE! You don't pay crap for your defense
To be fair we only need high levels of defence because people are horrible to each other. If you work towards peace, there’s less need for defence.
 @SvalPlays  to be fair the US rebuilt Western Europe with the Marshall plan after World War II, Berlin airlift, among other places that it was the US that had the muscle to stand down the Soviets… least we forget
 @bigbuj7303  right, I have a friend who lives in Germany… still waiting to see a doctor… and waiting… and waiting and waiting😊
Here is the thing, the US is not defending Europe out of the goodness of their hearts. They are providing a threat and a target for Russia away from American territory. No one talks about the incentives here but I think they are immensely important
Europe needs to be shown their military weakness and how they are not invited to ukraine, usa, russia peace talks. if Europe didn’t try to get Ukraine into NATO in 2008, Russia would’ve never invaded Crimea.
 @ElZappata  Hey, (American #) in Germany here. The healthcare I had in America was leagues better than the one I have in Germany. Even if you get an appointment that you wait six months for, there’s a high likelihood that the doctor will not examine you in detail, give a vague guess of what it is, and then get you out the door. Unfortunately, doctors in Germany are less trained and in general care way less than the average American doctor, in my experience. The ERs in Germany are good though and that has no waiting ofc
​@bigbuj7303  our Healthcare is the gold standard... please tell me how many medical advancements came out of the EU??? O wait None.  Lol
 @pinkyanbrain9251  the Gold Standard: sell your house to afford an appendicitis surgery
@MarcosAG90   its called insurance... thats all I pay for and that pays the Hospital.. So again tell me what medical advancements came out of the EU??
 @pinkyanbrain9251  All of them, since every advancement was "done" by an European running from War in Europe. And no, your insurance doesn't pay for your hospital. You should read your insurance policy, because they only cover basic medical needs.
 @ElZappata  Interesting that your friend in germany still waiting. Do you have comon sense or logic? The more people using a system the longer it takes for an individual to get his turn. That being said: when it comes to health care the waiting time depends on case urgency. The US private system collapsed after COVID. The private system in the US couldn't take the massive ammount of costumers, but Europeans were receiving treatment. Most US cant afford health insurance so hospitals in the US are always empty thus having a short waiting list. Is like having a car and not able to afford gas.
 @inframatic  Hey, European here. The health care system in the US is garbage. After three months waiting for an apointment the Doctor claimed I had Cancer. And not a "normal" Cancer but  a extreme rare Cancer. Glad im European, because my Doctor back home was able to give me a real diagnosis, and guess what: Was not Cancer. By us doctors I would have lost my knee, by EU Doctors I still running and still playing my sport.
 @curtisridge2506  the US covers 16% of NATO budget and makes up around 55% of NATO's total military spending.  And this total military spending isn't just for NATO. Most of the US military spenditure has nothing to do with NATO, but with the US wanting to maintain their status as the world sole superpower that can go on military adventures anywhere.
 @dougt2024  If the USSR had taken Europe, there is non-impossible chance the US also would be speaking Russian. I don't think people understand the strength a USSR that spanned the entirety of Europe would have. This was the main reason for the US to support western Europe after WW2: they were afraid of the USSR becoming too powerfull and become a very big threat to the US.
 @curtisridge2506  That's quite ironic.. because.. like.. did you read the title of the charts you are refering me to? That's the thing that's usually in big bold letters. Im just asking because there is a huge difference between NATOs combined military spending and NATOs budget. The US pays for 16% of NATOs budget. The US makes up 60-70+% of NATOs total defense spending. You do not spend this money on NATO, you simply spend a truckload of money on your own military. That's a huge difference. The part of your military you use to defend Europe is a fraction of that, and EU spends more on Europes defense than that fraction. Thus we spend more on the defense of Europe than the US does. That is a true statement. Also, the money we do spend, which is hundreds upon hundreds of billions.. in big parts goes straight to the US. But since ignorant people like you voted for an equally ignorant president, that is likely about to change. Im all for that change. We should invest that money into domestic infrastructure instead. But please dont come crying when US arms exports drop by hundreds of billions, which is a major source of income for your entire country. The Ukraine war alone, which ignorant people like you (and Trump) love to complain about, raised US arms export anually from 170ish billion to new record heights of 320 billion. But yeah, we get you dont want that anymore. Neither do we, to be frank. It's time to stop carrying the entire US economy. It would also be smart to consider your own situation before accusing others of "not paying for crap". You do realise that the entire US economy survives solely on credit and debt creation, right? What do you think who lends you all that money, buddy? :)
Another American here: I thank OP for his sane acknowledgment. The harsh fact is, we (the USA) simply can't afford to defend Europe anymore, not for a long while anyway. We are reluctantly entering a period of fiscal austerity, during which our strategic resources must be re-oriented towards the Pacific.  Also, I know the EU have increased military spending the past three years, but I'm a little surprised they haven't put any boots on the ground yet, if Ukrainian sovereignty is as important to them as they say. Because even viewed through the lens of America's media, the war as currently prosecuted does not seem to be going Ukraine's way.
And Oil don't forget that, Minerals, power and Money. A handful of Bellends deciding the future of billions
Increased conventional defence spending is needed but Britain & France already have adequate nukes.
It all comes back to not being annexed and oppressed by a tyrannical foreign regime. Whatever it takes
Say goodbye to your free healthcare. That's one of the burdens military powers have to accept.
 @jhrusa8125  the usa spends almost 2x more per capita on healthcare, just through medicaid/medicare. we will keep our free healthcare and get it 2x cheaprr than you, while keeping it universal and funded by taxes
@ngc722  you have an aging demographic, and you can't assimilate immigrants. Where are you going to get the money? You're through .
Tbf what we're discussing is sovereignty. We would be better off relying on a roulette wheel rather than the Americans
Why are you surprised have you not studied history at all?  We are still the human race.  We will always fight for power.  Commodities like some have mentioned minerals and oil can enable power.  We have always fought for land this is a constant through out our existence.  In the beginning it was against other species after that we fought against our own.  To think that when there was no traditional war there wasn't fighting for power you would be naive.  All of us are constantly at war.  You might not think you are but you are and are just a pawn for someone else.
 @jhrusa8125  It is absurd to mix European public healthcare with US military spending. In the US, public spending on Medicaid (the public healthcare scheme for the poor) and Medicare (public healthcare scheme for the over 65s) corresponds to 16.5% of GDP, despite the fact that the majority of Americans are not entitled to it and must turn to private healthcare. In Italy, where I live, spending on public healthcare, which covers the entire population, corresponds to 8.4% of GDP. (OECD data 2022). This is because in the US there is absurd speculation on both public and private healthcare spending, which has nothing to do with military spending. If you think that investing less in military spending will improve your healthcare system, you are wrong. Too many people are getting rich off your health and your government will do nothing to stop this speculation. In Europe, even by increasing military spending, healthcare will remain public, simply because in Europe there is less speculation on healthcare which costs us much less than it does for you. For the rest I agree with the creation of a European army and a reduction of US military investments. For us Europeans this also means limiting US interference.
There will always be some crazy leaders in one of so many countries.
Because otherwise Zelensky will not earn anything, only from war and threats
Establish your pan-EU (NOT "pan-European" as the lie would have it) military but as you state earlier in yur post but conveniently omit in your conclusion, the USA AND we British have had to block earlier EU attempts to subvert and supplant NATO. NOW,  HOWEVER, WHEN THE USA LEAVES the alliance the EU is at last subverting, WE BRITISH AND OUR CANADIAN KIN WILL ALSO LEAVE WITH OUR AMERICAN ALLY!
Altough that's the most ChatGPT answer i've ever read in a youtube comment, that's absolutely correct.
​ @squirepraggerstope3591  no we wont, neither will Canada. You a bot lol? Both the UK and Canada are moving away from the US, what rock you been under.
 @malikaia9652  Yes we will. Starmer's rabble will not be able to re-shackle us to their adored EU. Yet no point in us arguing hypothetical cases. We'll just wait and see, eh!
 @squirepraggerstope3591  like you waited and seen the effects of leaving the EU?
 @squirepraggerstope3591  Exactly...It was the US in partneship with European Oligarchs who stopped it...
@borekminer Minimal, by any objective measure, tbh. Look at the relevant HARD DATA. Except when our dishonest and determinedly pro-EU establishment elites failed appallingly re specific individual issues by fawning unnecessarily on Brussels. Our EEZ and domestic fishing industry, for instance. The EU should merely have had a transitional arrangement dictated to it.
@ you want to see HARD DATA? search up what happened to the UK economy after it left the EU, and then search up what your government wants to do with european employees in your agricultural sector and how it could affect it    also what do you even mean by "transitional arrangement"?
 @squirepraggerstope3591  You're really a fool if you think Trump or the US gives two shits about the UK. The UK by itself will always remain the shadows of both the US and the EU.
@borekminer I have. GDP data for EG. We're doing rather better than equivalent Western nations still hogtied into EU control.
@borekminer PS; by 'transitional arrangement' re the industry specified I meant our recognising that just ordering EU member state vessels out of UK waters immediately, would've been unreasonable. Instead, a still unilateral British decision permitting phased reductions in EU quotas should've been implemented.
US been also benefitting business wise from that military influence it has around the world, things like enforcing sanctions, petrodollar and dollar being exchange currency in global trade.
 @squirepraggerstope3591 that’s okay. the uk already left the eu and canada isnt even in europe. the eu can stand on its own without the uk and usa in defense if they unite and prioritize a unified armed forces. not to mention the british and canadian forces aren’t nescessarily in good shape. you both spend much less on defense than the usa and rely on the usa for defense just as europe so you are just the pot calling the kettle black at this point.
 @t.7746  Fine by me. I'm perfectly happy if EU member states prefer the organisation they established as an international bureaucracy for their regional FTA and Customs Union, should now also run their defence for them. As for your view of we British and our  Canadian allies, even better. Well said. You clearly won't miss us at all. Cheers!
 @squirepraggerstope3591 don't include Canada in that nonsense. Many of us are European. Many of us think that the UK's dreadful class system is dumb. Many of us stand with the Free World (inc. Ukraine).
@Ulf  Nice ChatGPT comment. Patently obvious from the formatting.  The U.S. didn't "stop" Europeans from creating their own army—Europe stopped itself. The EU's defense initiatives failed because of internal divisions, lack of funding, and an overreliance on NATO. The U.S. opposed some aspects of European military autonomy because it saw them as duplicative and weakening NATO, but Washington didn't force Europe to abandon them—European leaders couldn't even agree among themselves. If European defense efforts collapsed, it's because European nations lacked the willpower, coordination, and resources to make them work. Blaming the U.S. is just an excuse for Europe's own strategic failures.
Translation: Europe had 55+ years of not having to spend real money on defense, and could invest in their economies instead. Imagine if the USA actually saved up for several decades without being attacked before spending money on the military again.
@protorhinocerator142 For some of the greatest horror stories, see reports of German preparedness that emerged c2018. After it was reported that, inter alia, of c128 nominally operational Eurofighter 'Typhoon' jets, only FOUR were combat capable. While of the navy's six SSKs , none were fit to put to sea. Not that the French were, or are, much better. Even now. The number of operational Leclerc MBTs is now actually even lower than the pitiful number of Challenger2s our denuded army still has in active service. While France's once reasonably capable fleet of lighter AFVs is now comprised 100% of wheeled, not tracked types. Reasonably OK for pursuing purely French agendas in The Sahel. Abysmal for deploying to the North European Plain in winter to be very quickly bogged down in mud. Perhaps Macron should ask his old mate, Vlad Putin if he'll be considerate enough not to try anything until June at earliest and only then if it hasn't rained for at least three weeks.
So why didn't the EU establish such a military force without US and British approval? Did they need permission?
Individual European countries can have armies. UK, Russia, Turkey all have them.
It really still doesn't answer the past 10 years. The politicians kept agreeing to military spending then just lying. It was weird. It was like there were no rules, and it happened multiple times. There was no punishment from USA, so Europe just kept doing it.
 @squirepraggerstope3591  you dont speak for uk or canada also btw.  canada doesnt like trump, and they will align more with eu in the future as their values are more aligned.  trade agreements are not worth the paper they are written on with the us as we can see with trump violating usmca for no reason at all.    and dont worry canadians dont want to join the usa as the 51st state.  you see the same guys who funded brexit putting up billboards and canadians are offended by the thought of joining the usa.
 @squirepraggerstope3591  canada stands with ukraine and eu.  and donald is gonna see what he did when canada has closer ties with eu as a trading block.  north american trade block is dead as usa goes isolationist.  canada with its eu free trade dead will have eu investment and be sending oil gas and minerals to eu which they need instead of to the usa at deep discounts.
 @mypartyisprivate8693  no the british and usa blocked it.    the americans in nato have a veto power.  but with trump basically pulling out, the americans will have less influence.  why do you think things were slow rolled to ukraine, where uk and france were saying they were sending stormshadows and scalps and they could strike in russia but they ukrainians didnt.  cuz the americans have a veto power.  but thats gone with trump.
You guys need to stop blaming the US for literally everything 😂 without them you'd all be speaking German and/or Russian 😂
 @ThatTempesTGuy  and what you dont realize is your us dollar being used as the world trade currency is tied to the trade deficits.  countries trade in us dollar because of it.  when that goes and countries trade more with other countries and less with us, your dollar is gonna crater.  us manufacturing will never be as competitive as companies using cheap labour.  its why those companies are not moving back to usa.  your health care costs alone make it unprofitable.
 @squirepraggerstope3591  You're right about the military unpreparedness of the EU, this is why so many of us Europeans are trying to tell our politicians to get their finger out of their proverbial. It is however concerning that you don't seem to understand that if EU fails to do this - it will eventually come to your doorstep, just bigger and worse than before. Why wait until we are you're actual enemies when you can keep us as allies by helping now?
​ @squirepraggerstope3591  that big beautiful ocean is between Britain and its "allies" and they just stated that there's no charity anymore so you do know the cheapest transport to other economies is to the EU . You are too far away from everyone else
 @akmon3490  Bless. You're saying the nearest 5-star restaurant's quite a distance away. Yet Hooorah! There's a rancid "Greasy Spoon" (whose proprietor hates us with monumental spite into the bargain) perched toxically just on the next corner. So irrespective of 90% of our party preferring the trek, we MUST content ourselves with Salmonella Sid's and hope he hasn't made the wares even more vile by deliberately adding a few still worse 'ingredients'.
You were always free to do as you please Europe cry harder your weakness is not our concern
@squirepraggerstope3591  mate why do you think Poland is still in the EU? Or any other country for that matter? Cause it's the closest market and being in that closed market is better than trying to outbid the global market on who can produce the cheapest stuff.  Also your restaurant reference is funny taking in consideration the standards for food in the US compared to the EU, didn't JFK get named in charge of health due to the slob that Americans are made to eat that makes them fat? Why did LePean lost the presidential elections ? Cause she wanted to exit the EU. You hide behind analogies but in truth the UK exited the EU when it could have made a change together with eastern Europe, but since the UK still thinks it's an empire and that countries that were part of the commonwealth likes them they got us stuck with Ursula. And trade from the UK to the continent has frozen
@squirepraggerstope3591  also your analogy is incorrect on so many terms, UK is the restaurant and the restaurant chose to drop standards against their closest customers wishes and pursue a global audience . UK has gone the way of the western gaming market and pursued global customers   against their loyal customers, while the global customers prefer other options
Nonsense.  The US concerns and objectives are no excuse for the Europeans ignoring their own.  They should have recognized ages ago that they need to defend themselves.  Duh!!!!
BS. Europe has been ungrateful and freeloaders for decades. When they do spend money, they don't just buy F-15"s , the creat some decade long Europe project that ends up spending more,  taking longer, and not effective.
Nice AI statement, how about you spend some time educating yourself instead of copy and pasting, or go back to watching cat videos.
Interesting. Thanks for posting. I am gonna read up on this further
 @protorhinocerator142  we'll see EU prosperity when they will have to spend on defense big time.
"Discouraged", "Opposed", - Neither of these words is synonymous with "Stopped" and the U.S. has no power to stop any European country from further developing it's own arms or military. Also.. (Poland, the Baltics, and others) are not the U.S.
 @cavalex  Could not be more obvious.   No one will take time to format their response this. haha
yes, keep complaining and diverting responsibility for your own circumstances! that will fix it! it isnt anything like an entitled child throwing a tantrum when their mom wont buy them a new toy...  how are you not embarrassed by your behavior and absurd levels of entitlement? are you even aware of the concept of self reliance? iyour absurd entitlement simply does not bear out in the real world
That will also mean having older european men join the military cause europe does mot have young people anymore or send your illegal immigrants make it mandatory for citizenship they have to fight in the war
BS, stop blaming someone else. Europe could have ramped up defence spendings after 2014 and even after 2017. Instead it dilly-dallied until the last 1-2 years.
 @RUHappyATM  They have been dilly-dalling for the last 70 years.  I love it over the years when smug European's make comments like "US war mongers and love their guns"  all the while enjoying the very security provided by the US tax payer.   People on this side of the pond are getting tired or paying the bill and this President is doing what he has been elected to do and that's curb wasteful spending, or spending the does not directly benefit our county.
 @squirepraggerstope3591 no we are not. Because geographically we are in Europe so it’s in our best interest to man up and join up the European efforts. So take your Russian propaganda and shove it
 @squirepraggerstope3591 I don’t think you looked at the hard data. Lots of economic markers also don’t account for inequality. UK is worse off after the brexit vote but stupid people will look at blaming anyone but themselves
​ @giovanni-ed7zq  "US manufacturing will never be as competitive ...." In WW2, 2/3 of all the allies equipment was produced by the USA lol.
 @todayimhappy_5  How kind of you to worry that I may have missed some important statistics re HARD, ESTABLISHED FACTS (ie; NOT predictions/projections etc including those  such as Econometric ones based on stochastic models using MVR based analyses.etc) So do please  cite a few of those VERIFIABLE, post hoc figures on which your assertion is doubtless based, would you? Hmmm?
@ How nice, but the 'UK Restaurant' caters primarily to a vibrant, heterogeneous mix of customers from BOTH its own local UK community and with GLOBAL links...   and receipts are increasing  markedly.
@ Poland (AND most other former Eastern Bloc states) are still in the EU because their GDPs per capita still lag significantly behind Western nations and they're ALL (1) both net recipients from EU annual budget redistributions (+1.62% of GDP in Poland's case last year, for eg) + big gainers from free movement of their nationals  to work in West Europe.... AND (2), have thus far successfully managed to resist EU attempts to shackle them into most less palatable agendas (like non-acceptance of huge numbers of unwanted low/no skill inward migrants; legal OR illegal). Let's see how long they stay when those dynamics shift, shall we?
Europe has already been invaded.  The threat isn't from Russia.  By all means, continue with your little meetings though...
The US is as invested in e divided Europe as ruSSia is. The EU, when seriously integrated, would become the most powerful bloc. Not only economical but also political and military. Ppl forget that borders are a snapshot in time and we need to ignore borders and nationalistic ideas while keeping true to our languages, dialects, traditions and culture.
At the time of this event the EU wanted to use those forces against europeans who would not bow to Brussels. Their was the creation of a joint German French Brigade can't remember if it ever got going before the two of them scammed the money?
Yes - of course. If you want to rule the world in a 21st century you crush the competition diplomatically while you yourself grows stronger.
 @shy404usernotfound  lol you use 1950 stats.  go look up the labour costs in usa now with the most expensive healthcare on the planet cuz its on the stock market and compare it to asia for 1 dollars a day with no healthcare and benefits.  you willing to work for that lol.  go look at the tax rates also. anyone making equivalent to today of 1 million dollars, was taxed 80 percent after that.  its why the us was productive and profitable for everyone.  go get trump to agree to those tax rates if you want to go back to 1950's.
 @shy404usernotfound  you probably are not even aware of the tax rates in 1950's.  its why the middle class was so big and the us flourished.   also europe had most of their factories destroyed in ww2, its why the us became so wealthy, cuz they had to buy from usa during and after the war.
 @shy404usernotfound  its why american auto makes parts of their cars in canada.  its more competitive to manufacture in canada despite high taxes because they dont have to pay for american healthcare for all their employees.  the us basically fawked their manufacturing putting their healthcare networks on the stock market where they charge currently 10 times more for same procedures and drugs than in canada.  and its only gonna go higher because you have to show more and more profit on the stock markets every year.
Thats because AMerica would s**t itself if Europe had its own Army. AMerica would not be able to call the shots. AMerica have the best equipment and worsr trained troops in the world = fact.
 @squirepraggerstope3591  right, chamberlain said that in 1938, too. Let’s see how it works this time shall we. 🤡
 @squirepraggerstope3591  Lol, you speak for less than a percentage of your people.
 @emildavidsen1404  The main problem is that many Americans, like myself, who want to do something can't because the vocal minority in this country are 100% on board with the agenda of the U.S. political Ultra-Nationalists, and they, unfortunately, hold the power right now. Believe me, I would LOVE to keep Europe as friends and allies; we've been through too much shit together, despite our differences, for me not to. But please try to understand something, Emilda: The United States we knew no longer exists. It has become the very thing it once fought against. Trust me when I tell you that our politicians here in the United States DO understand what will happen if the EU fails to prepare militarily, they just DGAF. What's actually more concerning is that this may all be deliberate on their part.
@anton2497 Gosh do I? What ARE the %ages then? Hmm? C-mon, don't be shy!
 @squirepraggerstope3591  Are you living under a damn rock? We Canadians hate America now.
 @squirepraggerstope3591  The canadians and brits are more like blood-brothers to us anyway.  The rest of Europe just came along for the ride.
It's true but they still produce more than us currently, best we change that.
Still more than we produce, WW2 should have taught us that no matter how good you design a tank it will still be out numbered and will hurt more when it gets destroyed.
 @Sirclassic  They are literally fighting in trenches still. They just got new gadgets, that's all.
@JaegerDreadful  neither countries are trained to execute combined armes nor SEAD (Suppression of Enemy Air Defense) also Ukraine doesn't really have a modern Air Force and also is still mostly using Soviet arms. So I'm still standing with my statement!
Thanks @sirclassic I double checked and you are right. Bruegel stated produced/refurbished 1550 tanks.  Put it in the sticky note.
And ? Their production rate per year is way bigger than all of europe or the US.  The refurbishment of new vehicles includes a lot more than giving them new pains they change pretty much everything except the chassis and the armour. They equip their tanks with new optics, new tracks, cannon, fire control systems, new engines and much more.
@Silver_Prussian those are still tanks from 50 years ago, they're nowhere near as good as new European models. And if anything the ongoing war in Ukraine showed that numbers mean nothing. Putin is crazy and dangerous, and Russia is a serious threat, but it is weaker than Europe. The average age of Russian new conscripts is 50 years, they are using tanks from the 1960s and are advancing very slowly while struggling to liberate their own land, doesn't seem undefeatable to me
@Joker-fz6bu  ,,new european models" aha and what are those ? Let me guess the challenger 2 that entered service in 1998 which is a deep redesign of the challenger 1  that entered service in 1983. Or the leclerc that entered service in 1992 ?  The T-90 is for example entered service in 1992 its just as old as them. Other tanks include the abrams and the leopard which  are both over 40 something year old. Out of the entire russian fleet of tanks only the T-72 is over 50 years old. It showed the opposite number mean everything and you need a large stock of vehicle and high production rate to sustain such a waste war.  Wow dude you are more lost than I imagined, really the average age of the russian conscript is 50 years old, you dont say and where did you get that lovely piece of info ?
@Silver_Prussian  While the T-90 is newer, the T-90 shares about as much in common with the T-72 as the Leopard 2a6 does with the 2a4. Not to mention that even at the time where the T-90 first came out, it was still inferior to the 2a4 when it came to sensors and armament. The 2a7, Abrams SEPv,3, and  modern Lerclercs are all technologically superior to the T-90M.
@voidtempering8700  Except that it doesnt share a lot its based on the t-72 a in it has the same autoloader and it does not use a gas turbine like the t-80. However its armour and the design of the armour is entirely different I mean the turret itself is different. And unlike the Leo2A6 its not just armour thats added on, no the russians made an entirely new turret and fitted it onto the chassis. When the t-90 first came out it was comparable to the 2a4 on all fronts and latter it got better. None of these upgrades make any of these tanks superior to the T-90M. With what are they superior ? Thermals ?  Fire control ? Armour ?
@ I got this "lovely piece of info" by being Russian and following every possible source of information in Russian. As for tanks, let's say that France will deploy 122 Leclerc XLR and the UK will deploy 148 Challenger 3 in 2025, both are 4th generation, and how many 4th generation tanks Russia has? None. Moreover, the production of T-90 in 2024 is 90 units, and the visually confirmed loss is around 90 units, probably even more. Russia burnt all its annual production of the most upgraded version of the tank capturing the laughably small amount of land
@Silver_Prussian then why are those tanks suffering so bad in Ukraine , did you see a leopard go 400 ft in the air yet?
 @xavierrodriguez2060  because they are using only a few and they are also using them alone not in combined armes
Best of luck! We British will be leaving with our US and Canadian allies.
@ Sometimes I wish one had to pass an IQ test before accessing the internet and being able to vote...
@Silver_Prussian  I know what project the T-90 stems from. The original was basically a new turret out on top of a T-72 chassis, paired with the T-80Ud FCS. It was only until the T-90A where it became distinctly different.   Modern Western tanks like the Leopard 2a7, Abrams SEPv 3, and Lerclerc XXI have better thermals(remember, Russia used to buy Thales Carherin-XPa before switching to domestic production. The Catherin-XPs aren't as good as the tanks I listed previously, and the domestic ones are worse than the French ones). The FCS on Russian tanks is also worse.  I won't speak on armor, since both tanks are more than capable of sourcing frontal hull and turret hits along the armored portions, but Western tanks are more survivable post penetration.  The T-90M also  lacks a battle management system.
@ it would be still be far less likely to happen to a Leopard tank regardless of numbers
 @Joker-fz6bu   IQ tests, eh? Good idea! You might care to start with whoever produced this comedically inaccurate video we're commenting on. For instance, The absurd trick of trying to portray Russian defence spending as higher than opposed European states aggregate spend by applying a PPP equivalence measure only to Russia but conveniently forgetting to do the same re, primarily former eastern Bloc states.
Russians produced 300 brand new T-90M tanks in 2024. And they're not just giving older tanks "new paint," they are modernizing their older tanks with new imagining and fire control systems and new guns. Russia's air force actually got bigger than before the invasion, they have more planes now than ever before.
 @Joker-fz6bu  Russia isn't using conscripts, you're thinking about Ukraine. Russia only had one mobilization for 150k troops in 2022, since then all the Russian troops in Ukraine are on a volunteer bases. I know this because I have family in Russia. Ukrainians are the ones forcing older man onto the frontlines because they're running out of troops.
 @voidtempering8700  You're talking so much nonsense. Drones in this war has made the quality of tanks irrelevant. A T-55 and a Leopard 2A7 will both explode the same way from a drone strike. There has only been a handful of actual tank vs tank battles in this war, and the T-90M is performing just fine. The Leclerc has way too many weak points, this is why the French never sent them, they didn't want their tank to be humiliated on the battlefield.
@dopecat15  The fact that you suggested that shows you have no idea what your talking about.   It takes about 4 drones for a successful hit, and that number increases based on thebarmor of the vehicle in question. A Leopard 2 can withstand an RPG round to the turret and side relatively well, a T-55 cannot. Then their is the mobility aspect. A Leopard 2 is much faster than a T-55, so it stands a better chance of getting away from a zone before a drone can spot it.  And to top it all off, you have to make up random scenarios about what country sends what.
 @EUMadeSimple  they are canibalizing out of the 50 year stock pile.  the estimates put russia running out by end of this year because they are losing so many tanks.  its why they are doing more meat assaults without armor now, with chinese golf carts and motorcycles.
@ I mean the spending could be on the same level but they only "produce" old soviet tech, which are not on the same level as the western equipment
@ Okay please name a source for the number of 300 tanks and please don't name a russian news outlet
@ because they are paying millions of ruble for people to sign up
@ He is a russian bot, do you think we can make him print us a cake recipe?
But the number of tanks Russia lost during the same time period, is several times larger than what they managed to produce or refurbish.
Seens like u still leaving in the era of Internet Explorer, Netscape Yahoo and MSN Messenger...😂😂😂
@ Of course but they are currently in a war economy. The combined EU non war economy trounces Russia's economy.
​ @squirepraggerstope3591  lol no way you are not a bot. You do know that majority of europe uses euros as a currency right?
​ @Joker-fz6bu  it is difficult to differentiate between propaganda and reality both russian and American
@ sorry, kind of a language issue, I meant those volunteers (though many of them are not really volunteers). But anyway, the average age of newcomers in the Russian army is around 50 years, and given the way Russia uses its troops it needs much more people than Ukraine.
@ it's really not that difficult if you know where and what to read and you can do so in Russian
They produce 200 per month, so yeah they produce 2400 per year.....
⁠ @Sirclassic  the VDV is supposed to be their winged apparatus for SEAD, unfortunately they’ve been completely annihilated within the opening stages of the war, as they grossly overestimated the capabilities of close air support through attack helicopters when faced with modern handheld anti air weapons. Essentially, that large fleet of attack assault helicopters got absolutely smoked by a bunch of IGLA’s and stingers
@Silver_Prussian correct but once their chassis stockpile runs out they are kind of screwed, if you look at the economic capabilities of russia they really don’t have the production value to start creating so many new chassis. The point is, you’d be sorely mistaken to believe Russia has the capabilities to match the USA or Europe’s industry if they converted their manufacturing facilities for wartime needs.
 @EUMadeSimple  They have lost nearly 10000 tanks and like 20000 vehicles in a few years
​@squirepraggerstope3591  will we though we've just give a 2.3bn loan to Ukraine so explain how we are leaving this one out when that's total of near 13bn now funding it? If you think they are going to sit and watch further movements you're delusional
The russian production figures quoted in the video are wrong and overstated. Also no mention of russian interest rates over 20%, high inflation and Ukraine now hitting russian oil & gas infrastructure which is russias main industry.
You should not forget also to add that "Russia is a gas station with nukes pretending to be a country" to make yourself into a complete fool. And don't you forget the microchips from wash machines
 @voidtempering8700  yeah, we've seen those European tanks, they only burn really well...
That is exactly the same, so zero, amount of tanks as a country like France is able to produce right now...
@apisd8455  Most don't burn... As the videos clearly depict. The same cannot be said for Russia tanks. At this point, this is simply some heavy coping.
​ @EUMadeSimple if you had this simple fact wrong, I 'm not sure the other "facts" are right.
​ @squirepraggerstope3591  might want to watch the news Canada is ditching the US
And ukraine borrowed most of not all the tanks that got destroyed.
They'll run out of them any time soon. We just need to hold on.
 @kianlakchi7182  They produce air fryers with canons, not a major worry.
those old tanks, together with the Russian shovels and the washing machine chips seem to be working like extensions of superman :🤣
and also chips from cars that have long since run out. by the way, why should the Russian Federation fight if it has plenty of resources?
Yes, much as changed. But we can't deny that Russia is far more equipped than Eu in terms of military. ​ @Sirclassic 
They produce 300 brand new tanks monthly. That is 3600 by 1 year. How menu tanks EU can produce? 😂😂😂
They also use missiles on planes that can't fly high enough to drop them, and other kind of WWII amunitions.
yes I double checked. Produced or refurbished. Apologies for the mistake and ill put it in the sticky.
Just! That relates to about the level of 6 or 7 UK regiments I believe.
Which doesnt matter as the production rate you stated (atleast you provide a source so I am included to believe it) is far higher than that of Europe and the US combined.
 @gregnorth6413  Well, the UK isn't losing over 1000 tanks each year... But yeah, Europe should take defense more seriously.
Yah when I heard that I was huh what? Russia never throws away any military vehicles. It's just refurbishing everything it can
 @jorehir  Well, when has the UK put a massive amount of men and resources anywhere? They haven't been in a war in like a hundred years, i mean not really. they sent a palty amount of forces to "help" in the gwot.
UK sent over 50k Troops in the Korean War. They fought a short war in the Falklands War. UK sent over 50k Troops in the Gulf War. Over 150k UK troops aided us in Afghanistan.
 @michaelgonzales1845  The Uk don't even have 150k troops. Maybe in 20 years , so that averages 7500 a year. A paltry force. Maybe we should send 7500 troops  a year to defend Europe.
even then, 300-350 brand new tanks is more than all of europe combined
Their still producing more tanks per year than the amount of tanks the British, German, and French armies have
​ @JimmySentence which army did fight "a real war" in the last 80 yes.? That are Russia and Ukraine...end of story. Fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq was some show fight with some village villains. Therefore it's all learning by doing.
​@EUMadeSimple  Please research and fact check correctly before spouting nonsense. Thanks.
​ @Alex-uo6kh  Agree. This should be part of a massive rebuild, with low tech + high tech.
@Silver_Prussian Because Europe doesn't need to replace a 1000+ tanks per year. Russia is still losing more tanks than they can produce. Have the war going on another 2-3 years and Russian armored forces are basically non-existent (unless they stop using them).  European nations don't produce so many tanks, because they don't need more (though increasing their stockpiles just in case doesn't necessarily hurt).
So, you are saying that the western Kiel Institute has access to the Russian millitary manufacturing information?  🤣Do you even understand what you are saying?
The fact you think that statement from Kiel Institute is true and NOT a facade to give you a sense of security proves why Russia has the upper hand.
@ It seems like you're not familiar with the word "intelligence".
​@ One of us clearly isn't intelligence...?  Kid, i was primarily talking about military intelligence.
 @jorehir  The fact you pretend that was my line...   And  the fact you think you had a come back later...  Both prove my initial point. One of us clearly has nothing to do with intelligence... Not only military.
@ You got shot twice in a row and you keep talking nonsense? Show some dignity and admit defeat...
 @jorehir  Defeat? You have an awful way of spelling "You are right".
riiight because german propaganda riddled sources are so reliable right?? lool
I've noticed concerns about US technology that relies on satellite networks, with reports suggesting some companies may disable key features to ensure users follow certain guidelines. While I don’t have all the details to fully assess the risk, I believe such measures could be seen as an overreach. If there's an undisclosed backdoor, it certainly raises questions about the product's appeal, and if the functionality is tied to a service, those conditions should be clearly outlined in the terms of service.
​ @Prince_Lako EU is c450m people. Europe is c745m, c145m of which live in Rusia. A total of 51 countries. So EU is c40% of Europes population and Russia is c20% of Europes population and c33% of Europes non EU population. .
​ @gregnorth6413 As they said before, the EU isn't one country. Treating it as such doesn't make sense. The US fighting a war and the EU fighting a war is fundamentally different.
Do you bet on 10 unarmed people or 3 guys with guns?
Because it's 150mil vs 20 mil vs 10 mil vs 2 mil vs 10 mil and so on. EU is an union but not all the countries agree with each other .
143 million and atleast 1 million gone because of Putlers war. Most of them fighting age men.
 @gregnorth6413  UK and Turkey are still a player last time I checked. I sort of doubt Europe can help Ukraine that much, but Europe is a whole different story.
If you are in a fight, you might win, but with injury. Europe is scared of the injury.
Because we have done jack shit on our defence industry in the past few decades.
Because it's not a fist fight. It's a war which is about number of active military personel and advanced weapons.
Go out into the streets of any city in Europe and start asking people what they would do if there was a military invasion?  if at least 1 in 10 answers: I will stand and fight - you are most likely in Poland ^_^
Because population doesn't make a difference in modern wars. Example - Isreal and Plastiene.
Because of nuclear weapon. With nuclear, even if the entire europe had 1b people, it’s still nothing
Many smaller countries vs One larger country.  That makes it a bit more balanced.
Same reason Austrian artist with almost the whole of Europe under him was scared
Even without nukes, Russian conventional forces are still more powerful than all Europe combined. For example, the UK France Germany combined have less tanks than Ukraine😂, Russia has five times more tanks than Ukraine.
 @voidtempering8700  Yes, but the entire discussion is about EU unified and making EU act like one nation. It does make perfect sense. That is the entire purpose of the European Union : make everything more omogen through standardized legislation accross all those different countries. So I don't understand your argument. Saying "treating EU as one country doesn't make sense".....I mean, yes, on the surface, it is not one country cuz of different languages and culture, but the aim of the European Union is to make Europe a block that has mechanisms which work like that of a single country. So while it is innacurate to call it one country, it is accurate to call it one integrated structure that aims to have the same capabilities as one country when it comes to economy and military.
It is like 1 guy with a knife trying to hijack a plane. He can succeed only if passengers won't unite and turn blind eyes that he just stabs neighbour.  The reality is that every other scenario is lost for hijacker, and the consequence for people in the plane won't be worse than staying passive. For now, Europe is passive in most fields, choosing not to take difficult decisions, isted wait, and hope some miracles will decide its fate for it.  Unfortunately, the simple rule of life is that others will decide about European fate, which won't be in Europs favour 😂.
Europe is around 720 million. EU is just a part hence the 500m but non EU countries like the UK are aligned militarily. If y9u see any stats about the EU c9nsider the sta5s are without countries like the UK. So the stat that tye EU is the 2nd largest economy in the world isn't even adding UK plus others. We also have roughly the same number of nukes as China. Why the fear...nuclear war....the EU armies aren't strong right now so a conflict could easily go nuclear.
​ @qianghuang7320  You must be joking they are part of the most embarrassing military operation in history
@sumanchatterjee2480  the numbers are not just man power it's economic and technology. Russia is a second world country with soviet union era infrastructure and incredibly weak institutions compared to Europe   To give you an idea how unstable it is only last year, a mercenary group tried to stage a hostile take over and kick putting out. They are the definition of a paper tiger
Big Nuclear threat from Russia surpasses huge population advantage in Europe
500 million people, practically disarmed. 150 million that are in total mobilisation. There is definitely some room for fear in Europe.
Nobody needs to be scared of anybody.   Just make peace with Russia, get them involved in European trade (they're Europeans too, after all), and stop provoking them all the time by trying to snatch their allies and neighbours
The fact that this guy thinks the us only had 300,000 active duty military troops is a joke
If you don't understand, then you don't understand any topic in geoplitics thus should learn more to understand..
Europe is not 1 country. That's like saying that the US and Canada are one country - or Africa is a country. Europe is fragmented and there are some countries even in the EU that are pro-Trump and pro-Putin.
 @GrimReaperNegi  in the UK it would be the same, the EU/French have already removed from a space project on security grounds. Any EU Satnav type military system would have to be EU only as non EU countries would not be able to rely on it all of the time.
 @sneakcr3144  You may be right but it would only include the existing members if a treaty change tied them in like a dictatorship. Some countries won't play otherwise. Add to that, if you left NATO, would you lose UK/US/Norwegian, Swiss and Turkish support, perhaps others? Time will tell.
 @Prince_Lako for example Hungary is pro Russia, a country in the centre of Europe
 @hocuspocus6621  Too true, if the EU have an insular approach to defence, can you imagine the beauracy for non EU allies to support the EU and the decusion making timelines. Stick to NATO, if members met their readiness then it works as well as defence can ever be. Trouble is, the EU has a habit of making life difficult for neighbours, at the crunch that won't help co-operation.
​ @Prince_Lako EU are 550 million, if you add non EU countries then there live 770 millions in Europe.
500M people in an ageing population. How many viable recruits will Europe have in 10-20 years?
the 500 milliion aren't actually 1, as the 150million people are one. It's literally like an army of ants vs an ant eater. Sure that army of ants could be bigger and heavier than an ant eater if combined all at once. But in reality they are small and separated and can be taken down one by one.
Which is the bigger number? 5 or 1?…     5 👋🏻  Or 1 👊🏻   We have grown soft, fat, slow and weak.
 @qianghuang7320  Then why is Russia struggling in just Ukraine? 😂Paper bear.
500 million people are not scared of 150 million, calm down.
​@Noidentity012hahaha are yooouuu serious?😂 OMG.. where do you get news from..? 😂
They are trying by using Ukraine to testing the water. But to no avail. Today they are facing the reality of loosing 20% ukraine territory, loosing money and facing US tariff
@ The UK & France also have nukes or do you geniuses think you need to use 1,000+ nukes to do MAD.
@RandySnarsh  This is irrelevant as the EU is not one country.
@powervr  I'm American, who is we???? You want to be ruled by America?
 @Prince_Lako  Lol and this is your reply. Thanks for telling everyone how clueless you are about nuclear weapons.
Reason that 150 million is having a strange weapons that could kill or make a panic situation for these 500 million
It doesn't work like that. NATO is good in theory but would never work realistically logistically. Each country have their own laws and commanders. Who says if Russia attacks another EU country the others would help them military ?
@ I wish I could clarify it more, but what ever I say is somehow against TOS.
​ @qianghuang7320 Russia's equipment is 80yrs out of date. They are the ones that are actually losing the war that they started.
​ @Bellephrontos Only one fifth of Russia is on the European Continental plate. The other four fifths are on the Asian continental plate.
@pans7761 500 million who are becoming aware of arming themselves to the teeth, with a GDP 16 times greater than Russia.
 @majkib lol wait til you get there how quickly your mind will change when you see another human being turn into goo before your eyes
@ I dont know you, you dont know me. Why are you assuming anything? War is hell true but russia is deeper hell than that.
Remember if Push comes to shove India stands with Russia, so it will be like 1.5Bn against 500 million😂
@gerardflynn7382  whether a country belongs to Europe or not is a subjective topic, but it depends on whether you define Europe in purely geographical terms, or also culturally, historically, politically, linguistically etc
@recklesspotato212  India won't do anything. They'll try to make money of that whole thing
An European army should not be limited to EU nations. Partnerships for a common European defence can be build with UK an Turkey as well
@GrimReaperNegi Hi! Indian here. We have our own satellite navigation system. It's regional, not global yet. But we can help European space agency to build their own regional satellite navigation system. Ursula --- I can't remember her last name but EU President was here in India on 3 day tour and it is part of the deal that happened.
 @gregnorth6413  Talking about the EU fighting Russia as if the UK, Norway and Ukraine is not going to be in that war is ridiculous, comparing only the EU specific population to Russia is meaningless as anything else than trying to sidestep the sheer difference in resources the 2 realistic sides would have in a war.
@freedomfighter22222  i didn't say that at all. Think about it... I was referring to an EU military seperate from NATO.
 @GrimReaperNegi  EU has its own satellites and space program. Doesn't need US satelites or tech, especially becuase the EU equivalent tech is superior. For example the EU geolocation tech is far superior to GPS, much more accurate. So nobody really needs US satellites.
and why Russia will invade small territories in Europe (the Baltics, etc.) with alt most no resources and with the risk that they will be defended by Nato escalating a big war, when they can invade all central Asia up to Afghanistan, and Mongolia, etc. , that are much bigger territories with much more resources, if they really want to invade someone ?!?!
Russia is patriotic and tough, EU don't even know if they are male or female nor what a female is.
​ @qianghuang7320  Germany now is stronger than the Germany of second world war you are underestimating Germany they can up their game very fast.
Its is vice versa. Thats why this war started to begin with.
 @Prince_Lako   it should be acting as one. that's the whole point.. which is lost if none of them step up
How about 6000 reasons those be nuclear warhead's..how many does Europe have? 600 max?
 @t2-scoops436  one , one army, one leader, one goal...the legendary Robert Barathean
Twenty-seven lambs weighing 10 kilograms  are scared of a single wolf weighing 60 kg
​ @diomepa2100 The UK has less than 150k soldiers. They couldn't beat Guatemala.
 @Prince_Lako  70% legislation affecting you comes from Bruxels. It's called European Union of states/countries for a reason.
 @gregnorth6413  I see th EU as having  partial federlization in the future. Yes, there will be treaties, but they don't have to function like in a dictatorship.Eu countries are democratic, so the same principles can apply at a larger scale. EU can be EU an also be in NATO, and Turkey wants to join EU aswell. And even when a new country like Turkey joins, I don't see many discrepancies in coordination, because before being accepted , any country must fit certain conditions which are required in order for that country to have a smooth and fast transition into the EU legislation. Ofc, as you said, time will tell. What i've presented is the logical scenario based on the acceptance conditions into the EU that are right now in place,and based on the geopolitical factors that are sustaining EU's will to change into an even more compact structure.
Russia already did defeat such numbers when they formed the Soviet Union
i dont want any of my european brothers to die and want to avoid a war but if russia wants to push we need to defend ourselves
And the 500 million are far richer than the 150 million. We only lose this if we want.
 @voidtempering8700  They try to rule from Brussels as one country often disallowing country law and treating them more like provinces.
Exactly! Irrational fearmongering hype, going to fill the pockets of a few with a lot of cash!
same reason a city can be afraid of the mop with only a few 100 people.
That's not how it works, more number equals win. What a dumb comment.  You are vaccinated too am I right?
Who is scared? Europe would slap russia in Battle, all EU is scared of is nuclear.
I'll help you understand: Nuclear bombs. A war today would not be the same as a war 60 years ago.
That not how it works    The weapons matter far more then just numbers
Watch some videos from ukraine where people are forced to join military, beaten just to obey etc. Its not about numbers. There are NOONE in Ukrain who wants to fight now
Modern warfare is less about numbers in people. The issue is energy dependency. Countries like Germany cked themselves and became reliant on blood oil of Russia
​ @ShowTimeHere Hungary is not pro Russia. Our current government is and some of its ignorant supporters maybe. However most Hungarians aren't actually pro Russian. Hungary has deep scars from the decades-long Soviet influence.
@ been to Budapest as a tourist. I was shocked to see a soviet monument in a park but nazism condemned everywhere. Both regimes should have been condemned drastically. But yeah, your government was elected by your people so it does represent you, not all but since it has majority a good part of you. And as the government rules the country, it dictates what it votes internationally where is clearly pro Russia
Define large Army? 20k Army isn't a large Army. There's a huge difference between facts and delusion.
​ @aktob316 Where exactly did you get that number from? Don't you know how much troops we have in reserve force lol
Bro, Russia takes Finnland over in a blink of an eye. They can have 10 million soldiers. ​ @FINJoni 
Finland has a population of 5 million people .............. oh dear
russia would roll over finland in one day if he wanted to
 @daevictusand873  Ukraine got 500 Billion Support from US and 100 Billion from Europe. Ukraine even don't have communication system, without US and Europe, Russia would have taken whole Ukraine in one day. Moreover, even with all this support Russia took 20% of Ukraine. Fool.
 @Prof.Dr.Ackermann  Ehm and Finland wouldn’t get support? You focused an men power and now you‘re talking about money / weapons. If Finland would be attacked, it would receive even more support that Ukraine. That’s just stupid Russian propaganda.
Finland has 25k personnel plus 750k reserve Russia has 1M active and 2M reserve
 @Highwynd  wasn't it gonna be 3 days before russian ''military operation'' was gonna be completed ? it's been 3 years now
@chitzzz1384 yes, finland also has sweden.. russians are trying to invade ukraine right now aswell..
 @huh-xz6by lot of countries were. Including the soviet union for a period of time. And a lot of countries were also allied with the soviet union, which is not much better than nazi germany
The fins are smart they have Turkish DNA They are fighters.
​ @Prof.Dr.Ackermann  And when Russia does that, Finland can easily invoke Article 5. Finland is a NATO member; Ukraine is not. Your Russia has already been fighting for three years and yet they are still nowhere near Kyiv.
​ @theycallmetrinity you do realize that the only reason it was 3 days was duento US intervention right?
 @FINJoni  more like 1 finnish solider > 10 russian ex prisoners
​ @aktob316  900,000 reservists and the largest artillery in Europe sounds quite large to me.
​ @Prof.Dr.Ackermann  Lies. The USA have 114B, the EU almost 115B. Plus taking in refugees.  For Europe, finances is not a problem. Military cohesion is.
Sweden and the Baltic countries would help us - and we will naturally help them, too
 @aktob316  20k Is the active army during peace time. Our full force is around one million men who all are trained. Not just that but our cities are designed for nuclearwarfare as well.
What, exactly, would a soldier in  such a European army be fighting for?    The EU bureaucracy that would result from such an enterprise is arguably a bigger threat to freedom than Putin. And a lot of military-aged Europeans seem to like the idea of freedom.
Problem is Spain Greece Italy don't have the same concerns that Norway Finland and Poland do. You'll never unify you guys can barely spend 2% 1.47 trillion dollars budget the US accounts for roughly 73% at over 900 billion of that. Germany the wealthiest country just told Trump 5% was unreachable now you'll be spending more than that.
Most Western Euros dont want to fight for there own countries you think theyll fight for Eastern Euros
 @johnbattle7518  Why in the world would Germany spend more than 5%? The fuck kind of reason would they have to outspend Russia by themselves when Europe already spends so much more than Russia and Poland is in-between Germany and Russia?
 @johnbattle7518  Germany is not even close to being the wealthiest European country, you might have meant largest economy, but that has nothing to do with wealth and certainly no connection whatsoever to whether an economy can sustain a certain percentage of GDP in spending on its military.
@freedomfighter22222  If it's got the largest GDP genius, it's the wealthiest country in Europe. The point is if they want to replace the US all countries will have to spend far more than 3%. Navies airpower manufacturing soldiers etc etc etc cost money
@freedomfighter22222  Try watching the video and stop.upvoting your own comment. GDP, PPP Russia outspends all of Europe.
too the front then , tally ho and best of luck
 @AntiTMG   I totally agree. When it comes to the crunch, I doubt many western Europeans will fight for Eastern Europe.
 @freedomfighter22222   Because it has been skimping on defence spendings since 2014. Time to make up the differences.
what economies? 🤣 Without Russian gas, the German economy is shrinking every month.
 @alx9r   correct! And remember,  every one of the EU leaders is unelected! Where is democracy gone?
 @ilovethisworld3059 Russias economy is on par or worse than most individual European nations in Western Europe.
There is a difference between having a lot of technology and resources and applying that tech and resources to your military. The vast majority of European nations lack the stockpiles of weaponry and munitions needed for a sustained combat engagement.   Then there are also the feet dragging when it comes to modernizing their kit(I'm looking at the UK).   So when it comes to defense, while there is no question that they could, it is the lack of readiness when it comes to defense that makes something that shouldn't even come into question, into  something that is up for debate.
EU is not as politically united as some pundits pretend it to be.
We are talking about a bloc that cannot seem to pay the 2% of their GDP for their own defense...
The question is less "is it theoretically possible?" and more "can this be done on a short notice, without everyone just running for the hills and hoping they'll be spared?"
A bloc of 450 million people afraid of 150 million russians - something is fundamentally wrong here😢
A bloc that for four years has been unable to deal with Russia.
​ @subvariantstrain So true. This all started because EU wasn't willing to defend itself in the first place.
A bloc that ripped itself in half more than once in the previous century.
 @Miner-dyne   It wasn't a block back then.. it was just a continent. And Russia is included in the lot, by the way.
You are light-years behind in just about everything war and none of your 450 million has even seen a gun let alone fought in a major battle. Big big difference, you're under invested in your own national security and over reliant on the u.s.a for everything. Russia is a single country that is a war spiraling beast just churning away like always. How can you compare? If it happened today you'd have no chance and everyone knows that. If it happens in ten years and your countries invest triple for that time in their national defense you could put up a great fight and possibly win.
​ @BLMVDV we are not at war with Russia. Btw until yesterday the US was also in the boat and couldn't deal with Russia - and they still don't, they just give up.
​ @Miner-dyne I am curious, when was that...I mean, when did the EU rip itself of in half?
 @johnrickles3378 uhm you do know that guns are not illegal in Europe right? And that European countries have armies and that they’ve gotten plenty of combat training from helping America fight a bunch of dumb wars?
even done a drill. does ur army even knows how to fight a war. countries like usa and russia do more militrary drills in years than u can imagine. no matter what u are not ready for war. its not a matter of people or technology. its a matter of how much professional ur army is and their numbers.
 @johnrickles3378   LoL, Russia can't even take on Ukraine, and you think if they tried against something like France (for example), they "wouldn't stand a chance"? GET REAL.
you will never convince an American that other people are not capable of doing anything without them. I think it's time they learn a lesson in humility. Stop wasting your time on answering them and focus on what is important.
I am thinking like that too..yes we are not ready...but we can activate a lot...we are not Malawie... Or Georgia...
​@albertpuig6273  you are talking about 1 country versus an entire continent, and if you think Russia doesn't have allies , or more like that EU doesn't have enemies, you are sadly mistaken.
When talking about Euripe you shouldn't only focus on the UK, Germany and France. Finland have the largest artillery arsenal in Europe, Poland are spending q higher fraction of their GDP on military than even the US as are Estonia and Poland have a lot of tanks right now. Finland have a very large reserve army of between 700-900k soldiers. Though France and UK have the strongest navies in Europe other countries such as Sweden, Italy the Netherlands also hvae impressive naval capabilities.
Europe NEEDS to combine powers and work as a real block.
Europe should act united, for sure. Thinking that Russia may invade Europe is ridiculous
A massive issue is that for the EU to militarize, it will need to cut some public and welfare fundings and I don't know if the people are ready
Bro, this can not even be a question. Russia will never be in a direct conflict with Europe because they know that this will not end up well for them. (For Russia)
EU needs to sever its links with the USA and stand on its own. The EU is certainly capable of taking care of itself.
Europe would need a highly integrated military structure, similar to the U.S., with unified strategies, standardized equipment, and cohesive leadership. However, achieving this would be EXTREMELY challenging due to significant barriers in language, culture, and political differences, making seamless coordination in the long term very difficult.
The Title should be. Does Russia have the manpower, economy, reason, or drive to keep going. NOOOOOOO cheese and rice
The video asks "Can Europe defend itself against Russia WITHOUT America?    It's the wrong question.  It should be ... Can Europe defend itsef against a Russia-America alliance?
Bullshit, you adjust Russian military budjet in PPP, but not Europian in PPP, which would be around 660 billion if not more. EU GDP was 20 trillion and PPP 29 trillion, so if you (457/20)*29 you get 662 billion euros, but poorer countries have higher military spendings ( with higher ppp) ratio to gdp, than richer ones, so rough estimate would turn that 457 billion into a 700 billion
Dude what you talking about. Russia is have to resort to old T34 tanks and North Korean troops. It’s on its knees not powerful or robust lol
Let it put it this way… anyone who thinks the E.U would just lay down after WW2 is crazy. Our biggest ghost is hitler and the Nazi. Europeans know their story and know what the EU means. We won’t let that dream go away easily even if it isn’t perfect
An UE united economically, military and politically, free from  being USA dependant, is what we need now
I think if the US leaves Nato, the EU will create a new defence pact where the different countries will specialise.
It will have to be. What do you make of the British and French armies? Both have recently been fighting in Irak, Afghanistan, Mali, etc. You are serving us Russian-American propaganda
People think World War 3 would be like World War 2.  This is the missile age!
What you should be asking is can America take on Russian and China without Europe it work both ways.
​ @polocarthaigh893  no. Unfortunately nowadays nato means being usa dependant and we are sick of this. We need militar, politica and economical union
@kirisgd5255  we are sick of it as well, but wish you luck.
 @polocarthaigh893  Europe needs to come together outside of NATO, because as long as the US is still a member, they can block and interfere. It also appears EU is not the solution, as long as Hungary and Victor Orban have a say, being very friendly to Putin.
You literally have NATO members occupying other NATO members territory lol
I bet lots of fpeople though the same thing about Germany in 1939
Without the US defending you.  You would fall in days
 @crofoegbu6535  I would have said the same thing 3 years ago. Compare what Russia has done in Ukraine vs what the US did in Afghanistan and Iraq. Putin is no Hitler or Napoleon.
​ @kennunn3060 bro he hasn't even conquered Ukraine what makes you think he can get to the North Atlantic. Delusional comment 😂
Never underestimate Russia and China.  Youte in between the two.  And they are allies.
Dude, Hitler was also thought of the same way when they gave away part of Czechoslovakia, but then Hitler attacked the allied nations
​ @kennunn3060 Oh, come on. The US will be the first to surrender us to Russia, and they will also negotiate how to divide resources).
there talking about a 20 year plan,   take part of ukrain, keep it keep buiding there arm forced  and then in 10 plus year attack,  if the US leave nato and  Europe does not build up enough it could be done.
 @kennunn3060 haha EU would beat russia in 1-3 days :) we dont need US, Guy making the video have no idea how much more advanced the EU military is compared to russia :) swedish military alone count that 1000 Russians soldiers will die per 1 swedish soldier so
why?.. do you know more than al combined security agencies? Please do tell. BTW: Ukraine is part of Europe, so he already did.
It's not the people but the politicans who aren't ready for that. That's why on the one hand they criticize Trump but still haven't kicked the US out of their countries like France did in the early Cold War. They understand the reality of the situation.
For the EU to militarize you would actually need a reason. There are no threats. Ukraine war is a decades old problem, it didn't just happen..
You hit the nail on the head. To increase military spendings, something has to give. Unless you pay more taxes.
European people are too comfortable to let their social services go.
They couldn't have all their little nice free social programs without the U.S protecting them. Their defense budget alone would eat that money. Europe is in for a very rude awakening.
 @keyboardmouse7699  some of my friends in Germany have turned off their hot water system and having cold showers every day.... US gas is a lot more expensive then the Russian gas was, which they declined to keep using for the sake of fighting for 'democracy' while at the same time Ukraine prohibited the opposition party,  put their leaders under house arrest and incorporated the smaller parties into Zelensky's party. How can a one party state be a 'beacon of democracy'? Worth fighting and dying for?  But many folks in Europe seem to have completely forgotten how to think for themselves.
 @NegativeSum  ​ Just how little do you think the EU spends on military? The primary thing that that would change is that currently we are spending that money on US arms, when we should really be investing it in domestic infrastructure. Seeing how the US does not want all that money anymore, i guess we will do just that. Most countries will not have to raise military spending whatsoever compared to now. Not because of Russia for sure.. if the US continues on its current fascist path tho, we may need to increase spending.
 @ilovethisworld3059  Im german. Not sure if you are too, or if you just have friends in germany. While it is true that we turned off heating and therefore had cold showers in public building, if they turned off their heating system they did so of their own free will. Which would be a silly thing to do really, considering you can also just turn down the heater, wear warmer clothes and take shorter showers instead. Energy prices rose, but not THAT much. Completely over the top reaction. Not to mention, the only winter where it would have been somewhat justified to even consider doing this would have been the winter right after we cut ties with Russia. It's been 2 years since then.   About Ukraine.. yeah sure, a couple parties with links to Russia have been suspended.  They together had less than 10% of the total seats. This move aimed not to shut down democracy, but to remove people who would act against the best interrests of the majority of people during a time of war. Just in case you didnt notice, we are currently doing something very similar with all parties agreeing to completely ignore and not work together with the AfD in germany. And we are not even at war. Ukraine has been under martial law since the invasion, postponing new elections. That's normal. While martial law imposes restrictions, Ukraines parliament continues to function and there is no indication that smaller parties have been forcibly incorporated into Zelenskys party or anything like that, as you appear to claim.
 @Yamyatos  you might want to start shopping for some Russian attire.
they are using donkeys as an transport for ammuniton :D they went from second strongest army in world to second strongest in UA  to medieval tactics
While Denmark are actually sending a couple of dogsled teams to Greenland to defend it against a possible US invasion. Perhaps they can recall them to help out Ukraine.
​ @marekqwerty8963  must be why europe is shaking in its boots after trump shouts at zelensky LMAO
@ Nobody is shaking lmao :D We just now know, that we cant rely on US as an allies because it seems that Trump prefers good deal with whoever offers best outcome over fighting aggressor.   As if Putin will keep his word with him, he will break the agreements as soon as it fits him. Just like He did with Budapest Memo.
 @marekqwerty8963  funny how second strongest in UA and medieval tactics still kick hohol ass
Severing links is suicidial hahaah. I presume you mean just to become independent of the USA
​ @heatproofedwrens  That's the point, we are in the situation we are in because post-WW2 we have been 'putting America first' (industry, tech, software, culture, politics, and military response).  We, as Europeans, need to rip the band-aid off and distance ourself in all areas of life from the United States. We can be civil and friendly. But being 'allies' has been to our detriment. We must stop contributing to US industry (tech, software, military) and favour European industry instead. Culturally also, the US attitude brings nothing but conflict among neighbours.  There is very little reason we can't have a good civil relationship with Russia and China when we remove our loyalty to US goals, motivations, and industries.
 @camden_96  how do you "put America first" by telling America to do all the work? WTF are you even talking about" Industry, tech, software? Yes...we did that, you did not
 @camden_96  I disagree but I see your merit. America has always been jumping to and from wars. Our military technology is the most advanced in the world. Thats why EU has relied on us. We have the land, to have the population, to have the industry and size of the military we do, on top of the military technology. During WWII we beat Japan because we out-industrialized them.
 @kuiperdasniper  Europe "didn't do" tech and software? 😅😅 We (especially the UK) invented it. The point I am making is that we have been supporting your industries over our own for decades now. In part due to laziness, and in part due to the fact we thought we had a stable and mutual relationship. That was wrong and it was a mistake to do so. So I am sure you will agree, we both should distance ourselves from eachother and focus on our own interests.
 @scottr.7775  Yeah I don't disagree, but the point I am making is that superioriry is propped up by the financial support of the entirety of Europe (not only in military, but also tech and software) who have so far not created our own competition / alternative. That's what I am saying needs to end. It's a bad relationship that leans in US favour, and keeps Europe dependent. 'Satellite nations' I think is the term.
You're funny. You couldn't defend yourselves from a wet paper bag. Keep believing this tho, it tickles us here in the United States to here bs like this.
 @stevenpristoop3236  You couldn't defend the WTC from people who literally walked into the cockpit unobstructed, when you already had jets in the sky. American military failure / chaos is prolific. Oh, not to mention your military helicopters can't maneuver out of the way of civilian passenger aircraft AT AN AIRPORT.
Then why haven’t they done it already I’m tired of sending our troops to defend Europe
 @12gaugegod  How tired you must be of American troops training peacefully in safe European nations and getting paid for the pleasure to do so. There are no American boots on the ground in Ukraine in an official capacity.  But yes we are equally tired of supporting your military in the ME, causing mass migration into Europe, over an event (Sept 11) that didn't involve us. But thank you for reminding us why European support for the United States (who lacks any sort of gratitude or decorum for Europe's support since the nations inception) needs to be revoked.
 @camden_96  I agree. If you (Europe or whoever) focused on advancing military technology with software and such, Americas defense industry would lose its monopoly. Benefiting everyone. Monopolies are bad
I don’t think distancing is the answer. I think if our countries did focus more on themselves that would actually help strengthen our relationships. We want to do what’s in our best interest and believe it or not we want Europe to do what is in its best interest. It’s hard to want to help someone that doesn’t want to help themselves though and when Europe isn’t maintaining a strong defense for itself, but relying mostly on the USA it becomes exhausting. If our neighbors and allies need us we want to be there for them, but we cannot be, nor should we be expected to be the first line of defense.
Tbh the culture element doesn't really matter. Many countries with cultural differences across history. Ancient to.modern fought wars together despite even cultural differences
You know that Russia currently attacks the Ukrainian front line with 5-10 soldiers at the time right and try to find weakness which they then use lager but still very small groups of soldiers, we are now 3 years into the war where Russia was believed to be able to use lager armies and combined arms, when you take into account that you in attack need higher numbers than in defense, and the fact that Russia has already lost most of its best soldiers with training, equipment, health and age in the start of the war, why would anyone believe Russia would stand a chance against not a weaker adversary but several times the population of Russia, 12 times the GDP of Russia, significantly better air forces intended to destroy an already weakened air defense and Air Force, much more modern mobile artillery and rocket artillery much better tanks and anti air defense systems, prepared defensive lines and defensive drills trained for years, war economy 12 times Russia, mobilization of the reserve which in many countries are huge, 1000 vertical artillery drill in Finland was conducted last year with no issues with working together.  Against the Russian army that didn’t exist I would agree with you, against what was and especially what is left now, it would be a one sided war which is very unlikely to happen.  How long would Russia last if Europe invaded 😂 a unlikely scenario but much more realistic scenario for victory than Russia losing the last young men in a ethnic suicide attack against Europe, Russias last war
 @kimmogensen4888  You’re underestimating Russia’s resilience and overestimating Europe’s ability to mobilize effectively. Russia has suffered heavy losses, but wars aren’t just won by GDP or technology, determination, strategy, and logistics matter just as much. Europe isn’t politically or militarily unified enough to launch an invasion, and history has shown that underestimating Russia is a mistake. Instead of hypothetical invasions, the real question is how this war ends in a way that minimizes further destruction and loss of life.
Don’t get too technical. Europe is prepared and has been since the start of this war!
 @gordoncheswick4169  Europe isn't prepared now. Europe won't be prepared in a decade. Europe had a decade to do something, this started in 2014, they did little to nothing.
Dood they struggle to just pay 2% of their gdp for their own defense. But yea they can do all that, sure.
I think at least the language barrier is exaggerated, EU countries have been cooperating in many ways in the past, including in NAVO missions, and pretty much anyone of the generation fighting speaks English (also I don't know how many EU countries you've visited, but pretty much anyone of the current generation speaks English). And culture.. well, the US faces that between states too to an extent. Political differences: yes, we mostly need to get rid of Putin funded politicians in power in EU countries, those people are showstoppers. Anyway, the problems are mostly in logistics, communication systems and equipment interoperability, but those are solveable problems.
We didn't have all of that in WW2 ...and Europe still won, with some nations considerably weaker and poorer at the time and without Italy. Agreed regarding the lack of nuclear technology BUT..we had the cooperation AND the will.
Kiss free Healthcare goodbye. Now citizens will have to pay for hundreds of billions in defense spending.
IKR. Commands will be sent out in 3 languages. Oh, The Italians want their translation, please. Don't forget about those Spanish pamphlets. 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
Im portuguese and id rather have a small army than having foreign soldiers even tho european, in my nation. An alliance? Yes. A common army? No..
You build around defence in depth, with unified pools of armaments set up. You need a limited mobile deployable force that can be rapidly mobilized to reinforce and provide counter attack capability - while relying on a populace that is trained in basic defensive standards and tactics to hold off the assault.   With proper use of terrain, area denial weapons, and so forth - you can pretty much guarantee a 1:1 or 2:1 advantage for the defender, when a reliable assault needs in the order a 3:1 advantage to consistently create results.  In order to go on the offensive: Everything you said is true. But defensively? You can basically get away with pointing, and grunting.
@heatherhinde6544 Europe won because USSR basically Russia was there in the eastern front getting the whole brunt of majority of German ground forces. Without USSR and in fact if USSR joins the Axis powers, your country is either speaking German/Russian/Japanese today. Gets?
@heatherhinde6544​​⁠ bruh, wasn’t it expected for the Allies to lose until the US joined? I believe their involvement is ultimately what turned the tides of war in favor of the Allies
Germany alone got almost the same PPP and more GDP than Russia... Just saying and they got "forced" to invest more percentage of their GDP into military... Scary to say this, but it is good Germany is doing this, because in 3-5 years it is going to be a very strong military, because of the money and technology they got!
 @Slippy6582  Either they invest now in their army or in 3-5 years they will invest in "Russian" army
 @Slippy6582  A strong army with a dysfunctional air fleet? No logistics? No dorns?  Germanistan is technologically inferior to Russia. This is not the 19th century, just so you know.
@ Did you learn english in school or did you use a translator? I wrote EVERYTHING in terms of the future. There are still things like the Leopard (still one of the best tanks), in the future the Panther KF-51 or the PZH2000 (the best artillery in the world), but i am not going to argue with a "bear rider"
 @Slippy6582  sad to say that this is not 19th just as the person said above. Leopard KF-51 PZH2000 are nice weapons, but where is your nuk sub, aircraft carrier, 5th fighter, adv. drones, sat. network and most importantly advanced software and computation hardware? please, be realistic
@ My bad, autocorrect changed sentence a bit, but what I said is that either they invest in their military and create somewhat mediocre army, or otherwise Russians  will uplift their production lines and if it's Ukraine today, maybe Poland will be next and then Germany.
 @Slippy6582  Also, ground units are basically dead for modern combat, that Leopards (A6) are killed with 500$ FPV drones in Ukraine and that's not even real AI guided drones, but cheap easily jammable manually controlled ones. What really matters currently, is Airforce including drones and stealth aircrafts mixed with SAM-s
@ Like i said to the guy before, i thought you are US, UK citizen, because of your name, but you are a "bear rider" too... Sad, i do not speak to those people
 @georgerake5821  Europe already has a far larger and more advanced military than Russia, at the same time the Russian military is deteriorating while Europe has been expanding production capabilities faster than anyone else besides Ukraine in the past 3 years, far outpacing Russia or the US.  There is absolutely no chance Russia gets beyond the Baltic states in any kind of war against Europe, it does not come remotely close to having the military size to even control the civilian population of Poland, let alone actually fight a war of conquest against all of Europe.
 @BLMVDV  It's absolutely hilarious that you think Germany is technologically inferior to Russia lol. The country that still uses Mosins in frontline combat, and has to install handheld GPS in their fighter jets.
First omitting that Russia reassembles old tanks and now this. This youtuber just spews nonsense for fearbait.
 @michaguy  as if Europe doesn't have equal amounts of corruption in military spending. EU military equipment & munitions prices are insane despite being marginally better than Russian counterparts.
Some RCH155 joined the battlefield yesterday... Worldwide the only artillery that can shoot precise while moving... 50+ km 360 degree and can also hunt like a tank... With greetings from Germany, everybody that is following the war knows how important the artillery was during the war. 😉
​ @konstantin3374 nah theres not as much corruption in european armies as in russia. There might be inflated prices for certain types of rocket ammunition and so on but theres no General secretely selling all the stock on the internet 😂😂😂😂
This isn't how it works  You can't simply do that by making a ratio
None of that shit matters. All that matter is who has what in terms of manpower and equipment ACTUALLY.
 @dcktater7847  Unfortunately, on one hand, Russia has more equipment and on the other hand, Russia also has more manpower in terms of ability to throw everyone on the battlefield without their acceptance, which is close to impossible in Europe. In case of need, Russia can mobilize even 5 million troops, can Europe?
And France alone have 200k troops... his numbers are wrong 😮
Yeah, but the EU is a very poor bloc. It can't even survive without cheap Russian gas.  And let's not forget that the EU is still buying Russian gas.  But what will happen if Russia decides to stop selling it to the EU?
 @georgerake5821  For Russia that's a very optimistic scenario. So far Putin didn't mobilize inside ethnically Russian highly populated regions because it'd get the propaganda narrative out of hand. Europe has much much higher manpower reserve, but this war would be much more focused on air and sea than just plain "let's put there 5 million soldiers with no ammo capacity for doing anything useful and see what happens". Their doctrine didn't progress that much since 1920 or 1940 when countries acting solo handed them their a$$es beaten.
I don’t think you understand the complexity. This was a land dispute that’s been going on between Russia and Ukraine going back to  the USSR. So to say, Putin invaded, is not actually accurate.
Y’all are throwing each other in jail for tweeting the wrong thing. Good luck
@montanausa329  not really. If the USA did leave nato, then they probably would have to create a new pack. Whether they wanted to or not
​ @DaveNE-p5q Fantasy, how if USA leave nato and join brics? Can Europe defent itself?
@gera6012  if by some miracle, they put politics aside, yes, very much so, but the powerful want to keep power, not matter what
It would be a home goal for Putin. Is he going to risk all for the Ukraine. When faced with obliteration the Ukraine may not look such a prize after all.
All of that can be rendered useless if you destroy the satellites.
 @jahkarimirza7286  There's failsafe for everything.  Some scientists thought of everything that could go wrong.
By the time Russia makes it over to America the EU will be long gone. So if the Europeans like us or not at that point wouldn't be much help, would it?
France has lost all their bases in Africa (most to be replaced by Russia or Russian PMCs) within the last 7 months. EU isn't a paper tiger, its a paper kitty
Without needing to watch the video: Yes  Now I'll watch the video for the details😁
The EU should start building its own military, given how the US has a history of abandoning its allies. Trump and his buddies are about to fleece America and America won’t be able to carry itself much less help anyone else.
Dude!, Your numbers of financial contributions to Ukraine is WAY OFF!
I'm calling it: The EU will raise it's defence spending, exactly as Trump wanted, because Europe is weak (Poland excluded). Nato will stay intact (and and EU army won't happen because it's stupid and poses non-stop problems), and the US will keep a large number of troops in Europe.
You Guys forget the no limit partnership between  China and Russia
Of course Europe can defend yourself from the hords from East.. Greetings from Serbia to all Europians
Russia cannot threaten far from their borders without nukes.  Their weakness in logistics was exposed in the Russo-Ukraine conflict.  Whereas the European countries will defend and can fight from home if necessary.  So the threat to all of Europe from Russia is not the threat it is made out to be.  Russia has also lost a large number of men who will not father the next generation and as a result, they will not have the workforce to maintain or grow their economy.  Russia as we know it will begin a decline to the point they can barely maintain their own country
Poland has gone all in where military spending is concerned. They could lead the new NATO. Also, where the US is concerned, watch them change their tone if you ask them to get their nukes out of European host nations. They love holding that over Europe.
Time for Europe to defend itself.  Trump not only is saving America TONS of money, but ending the disastrous European Welfare State at the same time.  Greatest modern president ever.
I didn't realized Putin is such a threat for Europe.. I thought Europe have it under control judging by how Russia has not finished invasion years later. To outsiders, it sounds like Russia threat is overrated..
The UK and France are nuclear powers and combined, they have a population of 120 million which is close to the size of Russia. The EU has 450 million which is 3 times the population of Russia. So they aren't going to be just steamrolled.
You're acting like europes production wouldnt step up in a time of war lol. You're acting like 515 nukes arent enough to level the entirety of russia lol.
I hope Poland remains strong and firm. They did greatly while others are ruined by 'im mi grants".
Europe weakness is energy price. Without cheap energy you won't be talking about defending from someone, you'll be thinking to save economy. All your industry is going out of competition because the cost keeps rising. How many production went bankrupcy lately? Or during last year? Just yesterday I head another Audi production wa s closed.
Yeah right, Ukraine is eating Putin candy, Europe is fking well prepared, and 100 times more dangerous than Ukraine 😂 My opinion
Is JD Vance slow. American troops have been in Germany since the end of WWII. The USA stayed there to deter Germans from causing any othet trouble, but primarily because the USA was concerned about communism spreading from Russia. America wasn't just concerned about keeping Europe safe out of the goodness of its heart. Isolation didn't spare the USA from WWII, hence the USA took an active prevention stance.
The timing of this video could not have been more impeccable.
If Ukraine can hold off Russia for 3 years, with limited help, I see no reason why the whole of Europe can't!  Putin hasn't shown much military skill (who teams up with a loser like North Korea, for goodness' sake?) Frankly, I'm tired of the US thinking it's the only real power in the world, and nobody can manage without it.
France is the only country in the world that  has no sun set. Military bases all over the world. Check your facts
 @zenshulighting8887  and yet, all the bases in Africa have been lost
 @nueveocho5511  doesn’t matter. France has the most time zone in the world and those African countries still use French currency : France cfa
 @zenshulighting8887  They have what, one  maybe two aircraft carriers?  Ten (total) destroyers, you realize that France has a fleet not a Navy.  They have less than 300,000 military personnel that is equivalent to one mid size US city.  I wouldn't exactly call it a paper kitty but it sure as heck isn't a Tiger
 @j.celgoog3275  nah everything before was more interesting. Option 2 will be extremely unlikely, and unless national militaries will be massively shrunk in size it will be extremely inefficient monetarily. The big nations wouldn't want to give up autonomy by shrinking their militaries.
Here's a challenge. Spend 5% of your GDP then talk. Europe barely wants to spend 2.
 @johnbattle7518  If you can put two and two together you will realize that Europe providing for its own defense will in fact require more money to be spent on their part.
@imnotusingmyrealname4566  Captain obvious. The problem isn't me putting 2 and 2 together. That's your issue. If you can barely spend 2%, what makes you think you can spend 3 to 3.5%?
 @johnbattle7518  Poland massively increased their defense budget and are now at 5% and reaching 6% soon. If they can so can spend this much the other countries can spend 3% or 3.5% easily. It's just a matter of political will, and that's a combination of politicians and voters. It's just a shame that it has taken this extreme situation for some awakening. I hope you Americans will defend Taiwan.
@imnotusingmyrealname4566  So YouTube deleted my comment even though I didn't curse or insult you, so I'll try again. Poland has a motivation to spend that type of money considering their proximity to Russia and it's history of invasion and occupation. If you know anything about geography and conflict, Poland has some of the worst defensive terrain in Europe, which is the main reason so many countries were able to successfully invade it over the years. So, telling its population that we need that money for our defense is like telling a fish it needs to live in water.  On the other hand, you have western Europe. A region that believes the US military is incapable and they are more important in their own defense than the US is. They are use to free everything from healthcare to maternity leave basically a very generous welfare system that has been maintained exactly for the reason very little money had to be spent on defense because the US and it's military has always covered it under its umbrella. So, no, it's not an easy sell, especially seeing as the EU economy is not doing well.
 @imnotusingmyrealname4566  Also liking your own comment doesn't make it good or accurate
@imnotusingmyrealname4566  You also have to consider the fact that NATO has a 1.47 trillion dollar  budget with the US accounting for more than 850 billion. That includes US airpower Navy as well as logistics. NATO pilots are taught in an airforce base in Texas, with European grads having two planes to choose from while Americans have over 30. Manufacturing capabilities is another hurdle Europe will have to deal with if they chose this route. Navies are expensive, bases are expensive and the lose of hundreds of thousands of US soldiers and those bases that hire locals will have a negative impact on local economies.
 @johnbattle7518  I like my own comments because I'm used to it. Ten years ago or so I was a Reddit user and Reddit automatically upvotes your own comments. It's a bad habit of mine.
Yea…….I don’t think you understand anything and definitely didn’t get those “details” you supposedly thought you were gonna get 😂
 @johnbattle7518  so I was gonna answer this in detail but that was yesterday so I'm just gonna talk shit like you. The US has the worst culture there is, a culture of consumption and debt. The interest payments on the US national debt are now greater than the entire DOD budget which is now at almost a trillion dollars anually. Things in the US are the cheapest in the world in relation to income (ignoring some oil countries which are worse actually than the US ok you got a point). America lives easy because the US dollar is the reserve currency so they don't care about a balanced budget. EU countries need to maintain a somehwat balanced budget under EU guidelines. Americans need to just pay a 20% VAT on everything and the US budget is fixed.
Worse culture that you all copy and imitate.  Most of our debt comes from two sources. 60% is internal, and most of the rest comes from countries investing in our economy. I wasn't talking shit but since you want to start, let's start.  EU culture is the worst. mendicant welfare system that expects the US to carry its defense while generously giving itself benefits.  Tarrif imbalance that favors Europe over the US now getting fixed by Trump. World War trauma that has brought radical left ideology that has allowed a  blind mass immigration system that is eroding Europe's history and safety. Over regulation, high taxes, and  bureaucracy has left Europe a stagnant mess that creates nothing.
Idk most americans are sick of the un and nato and our new generations want to be able to afford a life and will choose this over helping people they are not connected too on the other side of the world.  Most americans now want a pre ww1 isolationist america where we do our thing and the rest the world can take care of itself.
 @user-ob1rh3cz7h  Yeah. The US can still do that for the most part without leaving NATO, since it's actually useful for coordinating EU/NA forces. I'd honestly be shocked if the US moved all continental EU forces out, rather than reduce them to scare the EU into getting off it's ass.
Thinking Europe is weak is your first mistake. You probably also think it's an amalgamation-state like the U.S. Every country has its own military. There is no "EU army."
​@Outwest_49those two countries see the US as enemy and a rival specially China hahahaha
Dont be such hypocrit, isnt Serbia for Russia and extremly anti EU and anti NATO. IM hearing it everyday here in Bosnia from that BIG SERBIAN Milorad Dodik... Pls. Decide for once dont be ridiculous
 @ayleee6565  Are u ok?What you mean all Serbs have same opinion?I say what Im thinking and thats it..btw im in Serbia and we are different then people in Bosnia
 @svenhvr  Da,uz.s je to bio ali mora dalje da se zivi..to du nas rusi i"nemesti.i"Pa i CG je i gde je sada?
 @KARADJORDJIJE  I don't understand your borat language from a third world country, indeed what Serbia and other balkan nations are
 @kkech1  You are je.k and I don't know that..I dont have nothing with them..Im Europian
I'm of the opinion that America was occupying Europe, and now Europe is being set free, not abandoned
how is welfare disastorous ? Living well is somehow bad ?
Would you rather be prepared for a war that never happens, or not prepared for a war that happens?
 @Dial8Transmition  Would you rather buy cheap oil from Russia and as its client be save or buy the same oil from usa for 10x more, and spend 5% pkb on weapons from usa that won't do s in case of war. In my country 5% pkb means 1/4 of annuary spend... This is ridiculous. Russia did attacked Ukraine, but everyone would do the same in its place. USA surely would attack Mexico in the same scenario. They showed it during Cuban crisis.
You're acting like Russia can't just use theirs first and wouldn't..😂 that's just stupidity
​​ @johnrickles3378  It's called mutually assured destruction.... Each d5 trident missile can carry 12 warheads each warhead being 100 kilotons. The United Kingdom has 225 warheads and to give you reference the bomb dropped on Hiroshima was only 15 kilotons.   This means if one missile carrying 12 100 kiloton warheads was to hit Moscow the estimated death toll using Nuke Maps would be just shy of 1.4 million. St Petersburg would be about 1 million. So with two missiles and 24 warheads Russia loses 2.4 million people and an estimated 6 million injured.  It would be absolutely horrible, and we would expect the same to happen in London and Birmingham. But that's why we have spent billions every year to maintain and increase the numbers of our nuclear deterrent.
 @timealone7906  totally agree but the entire EU would be a iradiated parking lot. Yes large chunks of Russia would be the same but large chunks of Russia are already nothing more than forests.
 @timealone7906 And Russia has over 5.500 warheads, which is almost 20 times more. In fact, 10 times more than all Europe and almost 50% in the world.
@N7000nn  the number of Russian warheads that are operational about is 1,800. But again what's your trying to argue is just stupid.  The UK and France have 515 warhead which is enough to destroy every single major city in Russia and everybody in it. You have to be purposely ignorant to make your arguement. The idea of having 5,000 warheads in storage is something which is moronically pointless. If 12 warheads can kill over a million people what's the point of having 5,000 warheads after the first strike most people are already dead.  If you extrapolate the maths (sure it's rudimentary) you're looking at a possibility 150 European deaths and 40 million Russian death after the first strike. This is the  basics, 101 of what you learn when studying international relations. Then you have the question of if Russia has just killed 150 million people and lost an 40 million themselves, do you really believe that the United States even with Trump in power would not be a target? Or rather wouldn't be looking at retaliation in terms of self-preservation. Especially with majority of Russian missiles currently being targeted at the United States, not Europe. So this is a pointless arguement, It doesn't matter how big your sword is if you both cut off each other's head.
@Aprarm_Broprm  Great another person who did zero research. I'll just copy and paste:    S-300 would not be able to stop a trident SLBM. The Trident is just too fast for the S-300 to handle. None of the S-300 systems are designed to handle ICBMs. The Trident II travels at approximately Mach 19.
Because the EU was far too lenient with Russian Gas that Germany believed would allow Russia to reintegrate with Europe and reduce any hostilities which worked… great…  It’s going to take some time for Europe to become self-sufficient again.
1sek googlen alter... erster Eintrag direkt "Audi-Werk in Brüssel schließt endgültig" vor 3 Tagen.
Energy problem is self-inflicted, therefore it could easily be resolved. Remember when Germany had to restart coal plants? France building more reactors, actually some other countries also are currently building nuclear reactors. Energy costs, no matter how expensive are manageable, restarting war production might be the thing that gets us. While weapons are not exactly the problem, military training the population might be a problem. Establishing EU war command might also become a problem, because of politics. For instance, will France send nuclear warheads towards Moscow if Russia invades Romania? Romania is not Ukraine, they would stand for couple of months (especially because of the Carpathian mountains), but ultimately will fall if they only depend on foreign weapons and no additional troops.
Not true !  Europe need more unity because we are still 27 very different  individual countries with  2 countries sabotaging everything EU is not united states !
That’s all true. But this is not 1950. The US is so far and away bigger and better in terms of military power than any one else by an almost inconceivable margin. It’s not the same situation
Everybody says that Russia will attack Europe, exept the Russians hahahahahha
The real challenge is that Europe has to make a choice and ACT accordingly. Untill now no one has had the guts to actually choose anything, european politicians and the people have just reacted to what happened after evreything had already been decided elsewhere. We need to shake ourselfs and regain consciens of who we are and what we should do. The time has come to act and shape our future!
I remembered most people here say they don't want to support Ukraine. How things changed after the oval office debacle :) By the way, I don't know how this "adjusted" Russian military spending works.
Some art school in Europe is going to reject an aspiring artist
I like the idea of a unified army but I see 3 issues to tackle. 1) we don't have a unified foreign & defence policy 2) we don't have a central language creating command and control issues 3) each nation has pre-existing commitments and baggage that may require their own separate military. What solution would people suggest to these thoughts?
Pmsl 😂 Russia can't even conquer Ukraine, wtf they gonna do to UK, France and Germany
I'll make this really simple so even Americans can understand. The NATO nations in Europe have a total population or 930 million and a GDP of over $20 trillion. so yes, if Europe builds an army then it'll have that same hardware power that the US can create but as it outnumbers Americans by more than 2-1 its army will be far greater and have a manufacturing speed twice as fast.
They just forget about the problem with gas and other resources in the EU
You don't need all countries of Europe to sign in into an EU army. The Schengen countries has a different coverage, the Eurozone is another set of countries. So would and should be an EU army!
Europe doesn’t need to defend itself, it needs to get back to the table with Russia, a European neighbour now the Yanks have done their usual and bugged out, Vietnam, Afghanistan anybody 😂😂
Thank you for this important video. The people of Europe must wake up.
As an American and everyone I’ve talked to we DO NOT stand with Ukraine. We don’t want to send our tax money to fund foreign wars anymore and want our government to focus on us for once. We are tired of having money to send to everyone else while homelessness and poverty here are destroying our lives. Sorry but not sorry, the people of the US are tired of our government being the world police.
I just re-watched the 1984 movie Red Dawn. The parallels to the beginning of the movie are large: EU demilitarises, the US isolates from the rest of the west and NATO fractures. However, the rest of the movie, a Russian/Soviet invasion of the US are NOT in play.
This is all so crazy. As an American I am not only embarrassed but outraged at President musk and trumpy.
Don’t know where you got the 114 billion, it’s over 350 billion given to Ukraine.
What is that old Song, "THE OLD GRAY HORSE AINT WHAT IT USED TO BE".  The USA is the new Weakling on the Beach People kick sand on.
Yes but EU is not in a war mode.   EU can outperform Russia without going into war mode.   No country can endlessly stay in war mode so even if Russia goes to war with EU it would fall apart quickly.   EU citizens would not really notice they are at war.   Russia would notice it is in war.
Theres a goodbit of mis/misleading information in this video. Russia didnt produce anywhere near 1500 tanks. Like not even close. Also, Russia is in a war economy mode and its military os less sophisticated then Europe, with old fashioned and brutish tactics. Russia cant afford much more casultys from a war with Europe and in the medium to longterm, would get slaughtered if and when Europe rebuilds its defenne industry. Also, the Russian military is highly inefficient and a huge amount of its spending is dramatically wasted. The Russians also dont want to start recruiting on mass around Russia(especially conscription in St Petersburg or Moscow). So, its more nuanced. We will see a very different Europe over the next 5 years.
Like what time frame are we talking about. The Russia demographic suffer so much by the casualties it will take 40-80 years to get back where they were before the war. And even before the war they have more people over 60 then under 40. Even with the top notch military equipment they lack able bodies. And as the war started all the money is getting thin. The EU was the biggest importer of Russia goods and energy (gas, oil). India and China use this conflict and buy for low prices and lately even China is pulling out because of fear of sanctions. Not mentioning they are even bigger paper tiger then Russia and currently heading in population and economical collapse that is far more worse the in Russia.
We don't say it will attack we say we need to be prepared for an attack and by the way. Ukraine is part of Europe, so they already did.
Russia said it wasn't going to invade Ukraine right up until the second they attacked.
Te Russians saying that they won't attack is exactly what someone planning to attack would say.
​ @joemetcalf2235 yes but this time we can trust them because Putin promised
The artist who liked to praise the sun and his race a lot?
1 and 3 are serious problems, but is 2 really that big of a one? It would require some translators, but nothing that insane. Most people can speak English anyways.
Point 1 and 3, it's easier to create an armed forces model like that of the USA. So an army, navy, marine corps, air force, space force and coast guard for the problems south of europe..😅 copy/paste al those branches and chains of commands might be tricky on the short term, but way more effective in the long term.  Then, besides the EU armed forces, each country can have a national guard just like the USA.   A National Guard is not a separate branch of the U.S. Armed Forces but is a component of both the Army and the Air Force. It consists of:  Army National Guard – A reserve force of the U.S. Army that can be activated for federal missions or state emergencies.  Air National Guard – A reserve component of the U.S. Air Force responsible for air defense and support operations.  The National Guard operates under a dual state-federal mission:  State Control – Under the command of state governors for disaster relief, civil unrest, and emergency response.  Federal Activation – The President can federalize the National Guard for overseas deployments or national defense missions.  So while a National Guard will not be a part of the EU military, it is not considered a separate branch but rather a reserve force of the Army and Air Force.  This structure would mirror the U.S. Armed Forces while keeping national autonomy. The EU Armed Forces would be a global military power capable of handling high-intensity conflicts, peacekeeping, and homeland security, while each country maintains a National Guard for local emergencies.
The second point perhaps should be framed differently, it isn't so much about the language , it is about that skills and experience needed to plan and organize defense on army group and theatre level, Europe doesn't have any of that and NATO is all Americans. This will take a looooong time to build up, like decades outside a war. So (imho ofc) point 2 is actually the worst problem.
There is a difference between an "EU army", mostly mentioned in the English speaking press, and that what the EU is organising, deeper cooperation, standardisation, joint procurement.  The "defence policy" is what is already in the EU treaty, and similar to Nato art 5. It is after all for defense purposes only, not like the USA for waging wars and interfering all over the globe.  Language is a topic usually brought up by English speakers only, not a real issue.  Point 3 is not an issue for reasons stated above under 1
Imo there should be point 4 as well which is the nuclear deterrent. Europe doesnt have enough nukes for a credible one. Somewhere 1000-1500 is needed and that assumes strong conventional military that you dont need them for tactical defense. That means building more which where reactor for this is needed etc. And then delivery systems for that, ie SLBMs and ICBMs which Europe doesnt have in sufficient numbers. Not to mention to political part of this: who has the command of the nuke, policy and outfall of the nuclear proliferation treaty violations.
For point 2, Europe has the European language "English," which is highly used in multiple industries around the world.
1 is a problem but for 2 we already use English as central language although not every one speaks it well. For 3 I don't think you should cancel national armys it would be Like in the Nato. We work together, share equipment und have one command but every nation can still defend it self.
Simply pay what you should in defense spending, and stop reliance on Russia the enemy. You were told about this years ago.
@Aaron_Guest  yeah but also experienced it. Russia cut off energy and gas in the winter an abroptly stoping food supply. My parents told me stories about Russia and how it is to live next to giant that has never enough. I and my parents are from Georgia 🇬🇪. So yes Russia is the aggressor and always will be, I hope you never have to learn it by yourself
Yes, what kind of aggressor Russia attacked Georgia, but for some reason you don't remember how the Georgians attacked our peacekeepers and got kicked in the teeth.
We didn't in WW1 or WW2 but we still won. We won because of determination, resilience, cooperation and the fundamental belief that right will prevail.
​ @AmonRa-z8w wow - you are proud that your occupying forces were able to deal with the mighty Georgian army. Kudos...
 @GrimReaperNegi  You speak English because of the US and US culture. Did English originate in Europe, of course, but you know why it is spoken across Europe now.
@catlover12045 So, this hipothetic European army will comunicate in language which is not native to any of EU members? That is really excelent idea.
"we don't have a central language" homie what language did you write that in? Literally everyone who isnt a complete idiot under 30 speaks english, maybe not fluently but you can understand eachother. And then probably half of the 30-60 population. And I'm saying that in the Balkans, the rest of Europe has a higher % of people speaking English.
 @hristoalovski8048  You would be surprised how many people don't speak english. Now try to imagine army where maybe 30% of soldiers don't understand each other. Than imagine Spanish soldier  in combat on frontline in Hungary together with some dudes from Romania and Greece, listening orders from Polish oficer who speaks not so fluent English, fighting for EU. Good luck with that.
Yeah but it won’t have the capabilities of the US, heck even our special forces soldiers have commented that American soldiers are more capable than any other soldier in the world. Plus we have one chain of command the eu wouldn’t so what’s the point of having a tool you can’t use
The EU has far to many languages we would have to adopt one just to have command and control. Eu doesn’t have the manufacturing capacity and can’t create anything new because of our stupid green environment rules. I could go on and on.
Then why doesn’t Europe just do it rather than talk lol? That’s all Europe does, talk.
Then why doesn’t Europe just do it rather than talk lol? That’s all Europe does, talk.
Then why doesn’t Europe just do it rather than talk lol? That’s all Europe does, talk.
US has a GDP of $30 Trillion at a population of 350 million. If you were serious, you would all stop taking so much vacation and get to work so you could afford that military you speak of.
I think the people are awake. It's the leaders that need shaking up.
 @rociomiranda5684  Agree, everyone understand Putlers ideas, Its our leaders who have to act: No1 are making military stuff, real active. And new factorys also.
Homelessness and poverty have existed for millenia. What are you talking about? They'll always be poverty and homelessness with prices rising and bills skyrocketing.
@ obviously man, but we live in a technological era where that shouldn’t be a factor anymore. If our government was actually focusing on the American people for one presidential term alone, we could make some really drastic positive changes here in the United States. All the money that we sent to Israel and Ukraine and Korea, and every other country could easily and homelessness and poverty, and so many other things here in the United States. It could fix our infrastructure, schooling, etc.. We are falling behind here in the United States. The people have been neglected too long.
Yeah no, lets send our taxes to Israel instead, right? Funny enough.
I agree, but the US just sent 4 billion dollar to Israel by the way. Imagine if they used all that money on the homeless in the US instead
America has the right to stay impartial. But for the love of God, DO NOT stand with Russia like your President is currently doing.
Are you trying to praise war? Wars are one of the biggest settbacks of our civilization. They should be avoided at all costs.
On the topic of not noticing being at war, well maybe the central and western EU. Some of us share borders with Russia, we joined NATO for a reason. Is it perfect, of course not but we're tiny (we need the threat of others to at least get a pause from Russia). We were called buffer states for a reason, and considering how some of Russia still considers the formerly occupied states their own. Yeah I'd rather be safe than sorry.
 @downs9724  Shouldn't have expanded NATO more eastwards and messed up in Ukraine like in 2013
EU spends as many resources and energy on 10% of its car production as Russia spends on all of its military production. That's how much more powerful EU is compared to Russia in terms of production capacity. Not that it needs to ramp it up because it alrady has 6x more powerful military than Russia. Russia wouldn't even be able to invade Poland nowadays if Poland was completely alone without any aid. European airforce alone would dismantle any attempts to invade any part of EU.
The EU will not replace wars, it will only notice thousands of nuclear bombs xd
Germany simply did not focus on his military. We all know what happens when they do.
This is not a question of "can" or "cannot". It is already an answer that EU has to.
god bless europe, As long As there's a trump Administration, I don't think you'll see any help, I'm sorry to say this country has gone to hell, That was proven when trump was elected
We dont need america to defend us,  dont forget Vietnam,  Afhganistan, Iraq  we beat the Natzis not them  the only wars they ever won was in their films
if Russia produced almost 8k vehicles, then EU can do like 40/50k or more at full capacity
Only Ukraine has real battle experience? Oh, please. The British spent 20 years fighting in Afghanistan. But sure, let’s pretend that doesn’t count. 🤡😂
If Ukraine alone has been able to do it for so long, what makes you think all of Europe wont be able to?
Please no more wars. I'm tired of seeing young men and women lose their lives.
All European countries surrendering their armies to an EU army, what could possibly go wrong?
"EU made even simpler for Americans": Putin is Amber Heard,  Ukraine is Johnny Depp, Johnny is a drunk mess but he's the one who got his finger severed  and got shit in his bed.
Let’s be realistic after 3 years fighting they have 20 % of Ukraine including Crimea . At the cost of 680000 causalities how can such army be a major scare for Europe as whole. ?
Way too many wrong numbers and assumptions. Not the first video that you have made of this kind. Production and spending numbers mostly wrong for Russia. Both Zelenskyy and EU has made clear that there will be no peace deal unless they are both a part of creating it. Europe has space assets and are building their own launching sites inside EU.
They cant even win against untrained army with zero hardware and history in war. now they gonna win against the ones that do ? laughable xD
It's just fearmongering. You can also ask if Europe is able to defend itself from US when they're not allies anymore. US attacking former allies is way more common than Russia attacking anyone.
In my honest opinion Europe is on it's way to collapse. Most of the countries that could actually fight Russia are weak millitarily except maybe France. Germany is committing a sort of silent suicide regarding it's economy and industry. The UK is pretty much in the same situation but this is not the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that in all of these countries the millitary aged men are 2nd or 3rd generation migrants who will never fight for those countries since they deeply hate them. RIP Europe.
Russia is fighting against Ukraine, which was supported by all of Europe and the United States, only because of this Ukraine was able to defend itself. Western propagandists promised that the Russian economy would collapse in 2 months, but so far we see only Ukraine collapsing, from where people are fleeing, and the rest are being forcibly mobilized.
Russia can't take one country in 3 years. Haven't got a chance against Europe.
they are already increasing funds heavily, i hope they stock some big shit
More specifically, when he was elected the first time, even before the election the cracks were starting to show as early as 2008. But after his election the amount of debates turned sour, riots, violence against politicians and other forms of political violence skyrocketed to a degree not seen since the 1960s. Not to mention the economic turbulence.
 @fakhrifr7833  Most rare earth materials are indeed from US, China, Russia, Africa
If you take all the energy and resources Russia spends on ALL of their military manufacturing per year, including all tanks, airplanes, helicopters, etc. they make, it still comes up to just about 10% of what EU spends on making cars alone. Just cars. Nothing else.  EU is a powerhouse, very underrated.
 @svenhvr  So how nazi Germany made so many weaponaries back then? It's the question of priorities.
 @derbigpr500   European cultures are very different from Russian culture. Can the average European stomach an urgent ramp-up of military spendings, ie moving industries to a war footing? I say "NO".
 @RUHappyATM  Ummm....yes. Yes we can. You're forgetting Europe's military is already way bigger and more powerful, and more modern, than Russia's, despite EU spending less than 2% of GDP on military and Russia spending over 6%.  Do you even grasp how economically massive EU is? If you take all resources, materials and energy Russia spends on ALL ARMS PRODUCTION in a year, do you know what it equals? About 10% of EU's CAR PRODUCTION alone. JUST CARS, nothing else. So, let me reiterate your question, can the EU live with cutting cars production by 10% (which would slightly increase their price, but nothing we can't handle) to outpace Russia's wartime economy?
 @RUHappyATM  Not to mention Europe being so rich and economically powerful, means it has a much larger treshold to work with. If EU even reduces the GDP per capita by half, it would still be pretty much the richest place in the world with one of the highest standards of living. Russia is already very low on that as we speak, so reducing their GDP per capita further means much of Russia would become poor and people would complain. The gap to becoming poor in the EU is massive. EU could literally spend 50% of its GDP on war, and still have 2x the GDP per capita of Russia.  That means the EU could literally spend 10 trillion dollars on defense per year, and still be twice as rich as Russia is. Is that more clear now?   Again, people highly, highly, highly understimate the power of Europe just because Europe isn't shouting about it like the rest are. You forget it took the whole world 5 years to beat Germany alone.
@  Yet Europe wouldn't dare put boots on the ground in Ukraine!
People come from all over world to work and live in EU because how large the economy is. People underestimate EU. It has production and technology like no other.
​ @derbigpr500 😂 fool you didn't put Iran,north Korea and china support to Russia, what you think only eu can get together 😂
This has now become even more urgent after the shitshow that was Vance's humiliation of Zelensky in the White House.
We meed more Merz.  We need neither far l  e ft nor far rig ht which both wouldn't commit to form an effective defense strategy for different reasons. We better get it done real quick before next French election in 2027.
Yeah, and don’t forget that they still have enough nukes to ruin anyone’s day
Any option, even changing nothing, have both risks and benefits. What is your point? Is there one?
There is nothing more uniting than an existential threat. If you go back 100 years ago and tell people and politicians about the cooperation we do today even with our current differences, they'll never going to believe it and say that's never going to happen.
@ don’t forget that this cooperation is based on simple fact that non European is die on the battlefield…
No, EU is very United. Eg : Netherlands and Belgium navies are essentially the same one
The thing is throughout European history, if there were some European countries that was a threat to majority of European countries, they would forget the rivalries they have and unite to eliminate the threat. The examples of this were Napoleonic wars and WWII
 @eurorpeen  You talking about some small countries that are the last ones to go to actual battlefield!
@oleg1981  that s the opposite,  they are the first ones on the battlefield and it s just an example.  It happens with every country in EU at a level or another
@oleg1981  nope in real time, did you know that the Belgian Luxembourgish does have a prestigious record in the Korea war ? In every war of the last hundred years, you will find combined arm forces from the EU working together and every country as small as they are was involved.
@ You are mistaking some support missions and very limited operations that are carried out by special forces, with open broad war.
@oleg1981  you are wrong! Just google things and perhaps you will understand
 @eurorpeen  🤣 Can you give me one example of combat where 10000-20000 soldiers from one European country were participating?
@oleg1981  world war 1, world War 2, korea war, Afghanistan war , Iran war and I probably forget more
@oleg1981  and that's also what you don't understand,  Europe is united more and more and often military actions involve multiple EU countries working together like one
@ you are talking about past wars. I am talking about modern wars! In Iraq the whole counting of all EU countries was around 50000 soldiers. So no. Like I said. EU is very brave talking.
 @oleg1981  I am talking about all wars but you are not speaking really, you just want to prove your point even when it's proven by facts that you are blatantly wrong, smile. On the defense point of view, Europe is very united and ready to fight. US neve won a war or a military engagement and only rely on overpowering which is not a solution. What we see is more and more inter country military integration and a strong opposition of USA to that because they know they are not really needed and it's only a money thing : USA want the billions of all those defense contracts that they would not go otherwise. Europe is much more valuable to the states than USA is to Europe.
@oleg1981  facts and facts ! And there is no believe or anything,  it s just facts
 @eurorpeen the United States has a better military than every military in the world combined. It’s not even close. Just one example… You know that we have had 5th gen Jet Fighters since the 90s? Not a single other military has operable 5th gen fighters. We are already working on 7th gen fighters. It’s really crazy that you think the US “needs” the EU. For what?
 @HelloKitty-kb7ji  Explain, why he is wrong? Because actually he is 100% right
UKRAINE WITHOUT ALMOST NOTHING THEY WHERE ABLE TO COUNTER RUSSIA'S SO AN EUROPEAN ARMY COULD DEFEAT RUSSIA IN COMBAT
 @IbraNNB7 lol Ukraine had American weapons and anti tank and anti air defense weapons from the U.S. if it wasn’t for America they would be steam rolled in a week.
@ i've been living in The Netherlands for 6 years now and have been to Germany many times and i'm from Eastern Europe so i have been living there my whole life.
"So far we see only Ukraine collapsing" "We see Russia collapsing" Both sides collapsing, which is a better strategic outcome for the rest of the World?
There will not be a unified European army this century. A European military alliance should be created around a security council of five (or 7) European states with permanent representation and veto power: the countries with the strongest defense industries in Europe that mutually strive for standardization and maximum compatibility of their systems (today these are Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Sweden / Turkey and Spain could be included), supplemented by only a few countries that spend the largest part of their GDP on defense. Smaller countries should integrate their military into that of the five permanent members mentioned.
Europe will have to ,as the circus act tonight hs shown you cant rely on trump.
We are lucky to have Poland. Salute to all EU brothers from Romania. Stay strong ❤
Spending and single command are  advantages for Russia, but let's be honest: most soldiers are poorly trained and equipped!  The great Russian Bear has been a complete facade.  The world now knows just how bad they are on the battlefield.   50 calibers on Toyota trucks!?  C'mon!
The only responsibility the US has is its people. We are fed up with using OUR recourses to run other countries. No EU country would survive without us. America needs to pull out of NATO.
As an American whose childhood was at the end of the Cold War. Whose adolescence was during the Gulf War and battles in Afghanistan. Whose early adulthood was welcomed by 9/11 and more wars in the Middle East, I can honestly say that I am sick and tired of American soldiers dying on foreign soil.  I'm sorry, Europeans. The EU is second behind the US in GDP. It's time that you  start fending for yourselves.
Russia builds about 30 tanks in a good year, buddy. Russia had a huge stockpile leftover from the USSR but they’ve burned through almost all of it. Putin’s had to turn to Iran and North Korea for AMMO.
I don't know. I hope Europe can! I believe so! The US is definitely the only military Russia is afraid of, though.
We need Europe! We don't need Trump! or Vance! What effect do we have without an educated president? Trump! Who do not know what happened with Neville Chamberlain and WW11.
Yeah, Russia's military is so strong it had to import Nth Korean soldiers.
The presumption is that Russia will be fighting only on one front instead of multiple fronts and they will only fight offensively, but European nations will counterattack from the Baltics meanwhile Eastern Europe would fight along its border with Russia. Russia would have to dedicate considerable troops to protecting itself while maintaining attacks into Europe. Europeans would also have the home court advantage while defending itself not to mention naval warfare in the Baltic and Black Seas. A unified force for Europe would be the best option but Ukraine has proven that dedicated patriotic troops can hold their own against a larger force.
Numerical, we’re in the majority, and we would be fighting on own soil ( and we see how bad Russia does on foreign territory). The war in Ukraine has shown that we have some formidable weaponary too compared to Russian and American equipment too in the EU. Losses in Ukraine on Russian side top 800.000. So it would be very unwise of Putin to attack a NATO member.
If Russia was that strong, they wouldn't have been in war against Ukraine in the last 3 year... They may have a solid army but based on what we've learn in Ukraine is that Russia army is not really efficient.. Bigger doesn't mean is better too.
🎉The EU will be a super power if Canada and Greenland become 2 new members means more natural resources and massive land , water and location 👍
This is all just ridiculous speculation. Some “experts” acting like Ukraine has ever had a formidable army… well they don’t, whole reason why it’s not been taken is largely due to huge support it’s gotten from EU and US. so imagine this if Russia is already getting it’s ass handed by invading a country with a very weak military in the EU then think what will happen if it dares to invade a country like Finland who’s militaries whole purpose of existence has been since WW2 to defend against a Russian invasion
Of course it's possible, Europe has far more men and far more equipment, both of better quality. Oh, and an almost limitless amount of funding. If it was a conventional war Russia would be leaving Ukraine within a couple of weeks at most.
If Russia can barley pacify Ukraine then it doesn't stand a chance against the EU
 @AlainBoone  Turkey is not in Europe. And the USA in NATO, now look at them.
 @Vape55  The British failed to kick the Turks out of Constantinople, so they're still part of Europe.
 @Vape55  Look i understand that you dont see us as European, but we are very much in Europe. Do you know which countries are in Europe and arent European as well? Hungary, Finland and basically the entire Caucasus. I know you are also biased against Turkey, no problem, but be logical and be true to facts. You dont have to like it, its a true fact though and any map shows you in an instant who is on the European continent and who is not.
 @Vape55  As a Turk, i think its gonna be big challange for u guys gl . Look what bro can you please explain whats wrong with Turks?
4 of your proposed 7 with "veto power" cannot even stump up to 2% GDP in military spending since 2014. Good luck to you.
Good.  Trump doesn't want you to rely on us.  Neither do I.
 @notcrazy6288  If you think this will not cost US you are wrong.
@ Cost us what?  Not having to station troops in Europe?  Not having to subsidize your social programs with our defense budget?  Go kick rocks.
Off you go to the front lines for the meat grinder then hard man,
@ That is just in your head, you don't subsidize nothing here, soldiers we have enough of them here we just need better organization, your troops here cost us money as well, so by by.
greetings from Poland to Romania!! a country that i like a lot - especially for its wonderful Romanian Revival style in architecture. and for its fast development and beautiful nature too :-)
And the only military US is afraid is Russia, China, North Korea, Irán,India, Pakistán 😅
Peace and diplomacy NEEDS to be backed by military if going it alone - otherwise they're just sitting ducks, hoping that whatever bigger, stronger force out there holds up their end of the deal.
 @echo4260  military improvements in Europe surely needed, but not because of Russia, but in general, and invidually in countries.
​ @adriabd  Nothing really, I was watching the video, and I thought myself Emm I'm early let's write a comment where I show the fact that I'm early and watching from Morocco. You can see it as a way to demonstrate to the owner of the channel that he has viewers from unexpected countries. Thats all
Ukraine with 400+ billion dollars military aids kid. If Ukraine was alone, it really would just take 3 days
The GDP of Russia is like that of Mexico. They have nukes, that is the problem. If not, they would not last a week. Ukrainie has hold them 3 years now and it is a small democratic country.
I understand that the US AND Europe has been helping Ukraine financially and with weapons, but why couldn’t Russia accomplish their mission within a few weeks or months, instead of this getting dragged out for 3 yrs?
It’s not about the size of the force it’s how it’s deployed. How do you think Ukraine was able to repel Russia with far fewer resources.
Its not all about weaponry but resolve. Look at the brave resolve of the Ukrainian people not to give in and together Europe and Britain isnt as weak as first seen. It all depends on unity and resolve.  Ukrains' freedom is also ours.
Answer me this: Russia underestimated Ukraine by a lot.  Now, Poland, Norway, Estonia, Denmark, Sweden, Romania, Bulgaria, Finland have been part of NATO. So free access to intelligence, training and modern weapons.  Ukraine did not have that golden tongue. They have been given crumbs and have been trained on the stuff they got either too quickly or not at all. And yet, they still manage to hold on (obviously because they are fighting for a good reason too).  If you just look at Poland alone, they have a decent standing army. And they keep investing into it. The Scandics have invested big time too. Romania and Bulgaria may not have the means to invest that much, but then again, they have allies close by. So, if whatever is left of the russian army ever manages to force Ukraine into surrender and they then go on and attack a NATO country, this war will end in 3 days...for a win over Russia. Bear in mind, Russia does have nuclear weapons, but so do other NATO members. I am not even taking the USA into consideration anymore. They are a lost cause by now.  So, to answer the question from my point of view: Yes, Europe can defend itself. Rather easily too. Patriot and whatnot have shown that they are not just some marketing gadgets, but actual good defensive weaponry. The PzH2000 is decent and Ukraine only got the ones figured to be too old for the Bundeswehr. Now think of those which are not that old and more reliable. And whatever Turkey got their hands on.  Air is going to be a bit of an issue considering the US may disable the US made jets to give their funding fathers in Russia an advantage. But then again, Patriots...
Can an army with modern proven battlefield tactics and experience defeat a paper tiger thats still using WWII Soviet tactics and donkeys? Yes.
The answer to this question is very simple at this point.   Imagine the number of European investors and affiliates in Europe for various reasons, some of the reasons are unmatched, simply abandoning the United States, leaving only the relevant contingent of interest in monitoring the data. Imagine then the human capital, equally immense that makes up the American army which are of hereditary nature of the vast Europe, here we have an inseparable cultural bond, abandoning the American army and enlisting back in the great native western house.  In a few months the numbers will speak for themselves, and nothing can stop that now.  They are completely useless to the facts constituted by the Ukranian combat, which started from the same principle that you are claiming, however there are differences, several countries in Europe have participation in real wars, such as France for example, Ukraine did not even have, and yet killed more than 700,000 Russian soldiers, and completely destroyed the armored, all without resources,  and when it had the resources the same was always out of strategic time, so this is the FACT in 2025 that will be the basis of any analysis would be that one intends to do on supposed strategic theories.
No you are wrong. Russia is restoring vintage tanks,troop carriers,artillery......they are losing tanks and military vehicles as fast as they renovate old machinery. Your lack of research shows how pathetic your report is
As an outsider I don't really distinguish the US from Europe. Why? Because afaic, the US is just an extension of Europe. Most Americans are in fact European and the US literally speaks a European language(s). Therefore, the US won't sit by no matter what Trump says and watch its ancestors/allies get slaughtered.
Lol as a Finn whos grandpa fighted in winter war I find this question to be hilarious. If One small country can defend and even some parts win how are You even wondering it.
Russia has to hire North Korean soldiers, that doesn’t impress anyone.
" russia has been ramping up its military for three consecutive years"... Russia has been trying to stabilize its military for three consecutive years after they've had the stuffings pounded out of them.  They have fewer bodies and Equipment than they had in 2022.  Whatever you're vaping I'd like some of it.
Much of the spending goes to US contractors. It should be invested in European ones and stop that hemorrhaging cash flow to the USA. This would help local companies and in the end make the effort easier for Europeans.
Yes. Europe isn't that weak yet, and Russia isn't that strong anymore. Even if man for man Russia is better Europe has triple the manpower and multiples times the GDP.
y'all better hope so. I'm tired of hearing about "free healthcare" while you fail to mention your country barely spends on defense cause daddy USA has a security umbrella over you. We're sick of our tax dollars defending your borders while ours were open and not one european nation offered to help close it.
Its not only Ukraine who have real batlefield experience. UK until vwry recently have had troops stationed in Afghanistan and Iraq. Also, Russia have as much/little battlefield experience as Europe. So it's a moot point.
The answer? Russia vs Ukraine ratio was 10:1 and they still can not win. A real brainer for all the EU countries ...
It might be hard at first and we will need to make sacrifices. But we have done it before we can do it again.   America is a dying Superpower with China and India rising, so this was going to happen eventually anyways.
Are we just gonna ignore the fact that UK and DK has combat experience from Afghanistan?  Are we also gonna ignore the fact that Russia has suffered significant losses in Ukraine, so much so Putin has borrowed North Korean troops to fill up the frontlines?
The british army was active for the last 20 years. Wtf are you talking about
😂😂😂 Ukraine is literally aided with over 200+ billion dollars military aids. And you are saying Ukraine were given crumbs. Without American and NATO aids Ukraine wouldn't have even last 2 days. Ukraine is still standing bcs of foreign aids. And also forgot to mention America literally had a  missile sortag in 2023 bcs of the amount of weapons USA had given to Ukraine so it's already say what Russia is capable of
 @RaiyanNazif  You should check the entire NATO budget. It's crumbs. 200 billion is nothing.
russia cannot handle that many fronts. They can't even hold their own border. Money is important but I think you give it too much weight in this argument.
Is it possible? Short answer: Yes. Long answer: Yes, and isn't even a big effort. The only thing we depend on the US for that would be somehow difficult to replace by national efforts are nuclear weapons, high-end missile defense assets and some support assets important to some countries.   The current permanent presence of US ground troops in Europe is minimal and it isn't a big deal if they go. Building up aviation assets to fully replace the US would be a bigger job, but compared to Russia we still outnumber Russia in our combined air combat potential by a wide margin.  As far as numbers of tanks go, playing with these figures here is a little misleading. First of all, tanks are not essential in preventing russian breaktroughs in the Baltic or anywhere else, they are essential in achieving breakthroughs in an offensive, a counter offensive for example. For that effect there is a huge build up of tanks in Poland, which can be joined by other armoured and mechanized forces by other central european countries for an offensive push to overrun russian forces in Kaliningrad and the Baltics. Germany is also deploying a brigade in Lithuania and the host country is itself acquiring a small amount of tanks.  On the Baltic-Nordic region Finland alone has more than 200 main battle tanks, Sweden more than a hundred and some 150 more to be delivered and Norway is due to have some 80 in total. Put together the Nordic front alone is due to have about more than 500 main battle tanks even though the terrain doesn't even favour heavy armour on this front.  We are not running short of mechanized forces very easily then. As for manpower, a couple hundred thousand Americans are not really that much scattered all over Europe, when the small country of Finland alone has a wartime military of 280 000. In my opinion this talk about American withdrawal is across the board paniced and irrational. We don't need an European army to somehow fix this, but the EU could in my opinion take a bigger role in organizing common efforts, harmonizing procurement and funding strategic weapons programs. Last but not least the nuclear non-proliferation question should be taken on the table and reconsidered in light of changing trans-atlantic relations.
Defend against USA? Yes if remember that Russia is a part of Europe as well!
People fearmongering about the EU or NATO collapsing if the U.S. leaves either one is just silly. All the need to do is buff up their militaries and they'll be fine. Heck, they should do that even if the U.S. doesn't leave.
Europe is perfectly capable of defending itself but has been restrained by the US so that the US could have strategically placed US military bases. Trump needs to find out just how actually transactional those agreements were as opposed to the way he characterizes it.
People who does not remeber the past, does not have a future.
Europe must be united more than ever! Europe must rebuild it's defence once more! We must elect a general commander to lead the Europe's army! We must be ready to defend! We must be strong and not rely anymore on US help! We must act as one entity! Europe must and will prevail once again!
I think one outcome of this the US hasn't thought through is the affect of this on their arms sales. Europe buys weapons from inside the alliance for obvious reasons, it needs to know its arms supply is available at times of war, so it wants suppliers who are on side. The US exports about 238 Billion of arms each month, that is going to hurt if Europe pivots to internal suppliers.
Provided nuclear weapons aren't used  russiand couldn't even invade Finland
Canada 🍁& Greenland should be the newest members of the EU 🇪🇺 👍the only option 4all to survive Trump Economic war and will create world biggest economic block Canada & EU 🍁🇪🇺✌️  🍁🍁Canada has a common border with Green land an EU member through Denmark so it will be the biggest global economic bloc if Canada joins the EU as the 28 member ASAP to avoid US tarrifs as well and Canada has massive minerals resources,land & oil reserves more than the US but needs people 🍁
Yes it is. Putin can't fight us all at once. He said he would take Ukraine within 3 days and he couldn't. His military is tired and low motivated. Many Russians flee to avoid being drafted.
I've never heard so much waffle! What will Jets in Germany do? Are you saying Nato countries are at threat of invasion from Russia who has managed about 50 miles of victory in Ukraine over 3 years! Your program is pathetic!
Europe  with its allies (without the states) is more than capable to stop Trumps mate,  Putin
I’m an American and a veteran,… Europe should probably ally heavily with the one military that has made the supposed #2 superpower in the world look like rank amateurs- Ukraine.
Yes! It's possible.  I have faith in the people of the world who really value a Democracy.    I don't think at this point in time that America is the super power it once was.  In fact we are losing strength daily.
We went from incompetent russians with shovels to now asking ourselves if we can defend our continent 🤦‍♂
After the disintegration of the Soviet Union I have never thought that in my lifetime I would be worried again about European nuclear annihilation again. I thought my sons or grandchildren would have to fight China at some point... but this...  Back to wasting resources in pointless fighting again.
And from what exactly should we defend ourselves? I mean, besides the predatory, imperial US regime.  No, Russia is not going to invade 26 countries when they are having problems just dealing with one. And even that they did for a very specific reason.
If you take inflation into account, which is about 20% in Russia, their defense spending didnt increase at all
If Europeans stop getting locked up for freedom of speech you’ll have our help.
@ you can not comprehend the power of fear, kid. You can remain to what are you doing on YT and leave the politics for us, grown men. I hope not but if it comes to war, see you on the battlefield
I think the scenario this channel is giving off is pretty close to delusional
I want to vote for the European Constitution again. United in diversity. We need to unite Europe completely to be stronger. A single army to protect Europe.
Nice propaganda, or you just need views right? This is not objective at all…
Russia cant even walk through Ukraine so in what world does anyone think Europe cant defend it's self...
Just imagine all the engineers from VW,Mercedes/BMW 😂 all creating weapons instead of cars with their tech
We're not worried about Russia, we've been invaded. That's our main concern currently.
OF COURSE IT IS POSSIBLE THE TRUMP USA IS JUST A TRANSACTIONAL COUNTRY THEY HAVE NO HEART FOR UKRAINE OR EUROPE  SO GO IT ALONE EUROPE AND LEAVE THE US OUT IN THE COLD YOU HAVE THE POWER THE STRENGTH AND THE SUPPORT OF THE WORLD YOU DONT NEED TRUMP
If Ukraine joins the EU and Europe creates its own army, separate from the US, it will be one of the strongest armies on earth. Because Ukraine has the experience of war and Europe has the capabilities
The biggest problem I see is how quickly it turns into a nuclear battle
Ours leaders just don't have balls, European Aircraft can easily overpower Russian forces, so as the artillery. Everyone is just so scared from nukes.
This clown is fearmongering first off. He forgot the UK and France have nuclear capability. And Vance is a moron. Europe can defend itself without the US if they get their shit together.
Dont rely on us Germans too much. We are in love with fighting with our hands behind our backs. Without getting rid of our "debt break" which denies us making too much debt each year, we cannot invest properly. Our new conservative government will make sure nothing will change on that front and our economy will tank.
Europe spending 5%, or one round trillion/billion on military would be sort of like "Ok, let's get back to what we didn't finish last time" in Europe´s Vacation in Moscow vol. 5
Europe population 500 million, Russia 160 million and an economy the size of Italy. Resources and money arn't the problem, it is willingnes to use them.
Have a day off. All European countries have been in and out of war for hundreds of years, Russia wouldn’t dare touch any “proper European country” as it’s been clearly proven, our tech is way way way beyond what Russia have or will ever have. We don’t “need” the US, they’re the rowdy teenager of the world but Europe is the real OG. As much as us European countries claim we don’t like each other we have each others back when it comes to it.
Yürop without the U.S can't do sht mate! That's what's up isn't it?
What are we even talking about? Putin has zero interest in invading Europe. And Europe has nukes. This is a ridiculous conversation.
How about growing up and leaving your juvenile war mongering behind so all the wasteful spending on weapons ends.
America really should leave the UN and EU it's not our war the fight it's yours
EU needs to focus on Tech and weapons, sadly Russia is the only reason why we need weapons really. They spend 45% of their money on military, thats alot.
Your numbers on the amount of funds Ukraine has recieved are absurdly low. It has gotten a lot more money than you claim. And NO, the EU cannot afford to make up the difference. As an American taxpayer, I am more than willing to let them do all the funding, though. Good luck!
Russia does whatever it can to keep Europe divided. Mostly just the countries bordering Russia are taking this seriously. One of the few things I can agree with the orange man leading US, is that EU needs to spend more on their defense. Relying on anyone else is just stupid.
Trump  ain't gonna bring those troops back to the US.
Sadly a lot of Europeans don't want a EU army. I'd like to see it but I doubt it will happen
Europe has the Panther tank. Russians: We have shovels. Europe has the Kaiser self-propelled artillery. Russians: We have shovels. Europe has the Rafale fighter, Russians: We have shovels. ......
US keeping bases in Germany is not for Germans sake. Where do you think all your wounded went to during Afghan and Iraq Wars?
2021: European Union as such takes on debt for COVID relief. 2025:  European Union as such levies an army  Federated Europe incoming in 3...2...1...
WE MUST REMEMBER THAT RUSSIA HAS LOST ABOUT 500,000 TROOPS AND OVER HALF ITS TANKS TO TAKE ABOUT TWENTY MILES OF UKRAINE IN THREE YEARS!!!!
Leaving Germany alone to be Germany might not be a good idea
Only problem with further unifying europe is our proclivety for authoritarianism.
Defending from just Russia? If EU countries work together, then easily. 22 EU countries are NATO members. They alone could beat Russia in a war. Obviously, while working together and using all their resources available.
Let me just say this as an American so that those in the International Community have no doubts as to where I stand on this issue: I value every one of America's friends and allies (assuming there are any left), and it is as your friend that I'm telling you to stand on your own. America has become, something, I don't agree with and have become ashamed to be associated with. This is NOT how you lead the Free World. The United States seems to no longer care about it's status in the world, or what other nations think of it, otherwise it would not be behaving so disgracefully. There is a HUGE difference between a Patriot and a Nationalist, and the scary thing is America has been taken over by Nationalists; that's why the country is falling apart (politically) internally, and snuggling up to assholes like Putin abroad. Take my advice, and again, I say this as a friend: learn to defend yourselves, trust in your own strengths and in each other. The way things are going in the U.S. right now, I highly doubt America will even survive the next 5 years.
Well Russia barely handles Ukraine Alone, how could they possibly handle Nato..
Yes, it is possible. I think Europe, conventionally, can beat Russia. Hell, I've read Ukraine alone is losing one soldier for about four of Russians.
Russia is totally overestimated as a power house army.Look how Ukraine held them for three years causing thousands of Russian casualties.Remember russia was also defeated in Afghanistan.
Possible? The Polish army alone is much stronger now than what remains for russia. If the finns also step in with the best and strongest artillery in europe, then they are truly fucked.
Then why are you spending so much money to stop shovels 🤔 are you not trying 😢
😂😂😂 500,000? Avarage BBC CNN kid ,the number is less than 150000 kid
Americans may not understand that their leverage over Europe is rather limited when their commitment is questionable at best. It is very difficult to take them seriously.
Yes,Russia ,EU ,Ukraine,CHina,Malaysia,etc can all work together . SHow Trump a leson leave USA aout. This is how Trump will make American great again ?
The UK doesn’t help itself with strict joining rules with their military. Before you even get to training there are so many hurdles…
Wtf?? Russia is a laughing stock. Can't even invade Ukraine and you are saying it could be a threat to Europe 😂😂😂
You forgot to take into account that one EU trained soldier equals 2-4 Ru soldiers, so if Ru were to invade Nato counties they would need 2-4x more men, and those forces would be less well trained each month the conflict goes on and Ru would need to keep those numbers up for years along with equipping and supplying all of those forces, and if Nato’s article 5 is in full motion they can place much higher sanctions and do much more damage to Ru efforts as a whole.
Well, if that is what a battle hardened army looks like I am not worried. Useless to say the least. Unsustainable. The EU has several times the economic power compared to Russia. Just grow a spine and make the decisions needed.
3 years agains ukraine, so russia could beat 32 countries at once? Lol
Europe? You mean EU? It'll be fine as long as it doesn't poke the bear.
Title of this video is the most stupid thing I've read for a while. Ukraine been defending itself 3 years now. I think the whole of Europe could defend itself easily. At least if we forget about those nukes.
Russia isn't able to invade an outhouse after what's happened in Ukraine.   I doubt they will last much longer past June.
Isnt my heritage israelit owned and PRO Trump?! So is this channel neutral?!
If Europe is supposed to be so weak, why everybody want to control it? Because Europe is strong, but weakened by division.
King I am very uncomfortable with your use of God so much because I fail to see how God is for Africans. God has let us down at every turn of humanity. Not forgetting that God is a white man's thing.
I think its relevant to note that while Russia is building more tanks, etc, Ukraine is disassembling them at quite a rate!  Slava Ukraine!
i love this video. Well done "EU Made Simple". Very ilustrative ,We need mor of this!!!
What a mad world... Based in power and unequal balance... The same as ever. The humanity don't change. The ambition of the weak man don't disapear.
there is a big difference between Europe and the EU there are 28 countries in the EU  there are 44 countries in Europe
Its not that hard when you get free money hand over fist from half of the World.
That vice president is a pain  less then 5 years this lot will be gone and so will the stupid UK PM
One other thing... croatia is in a horrible position with hungary and serbia along with republika srpska aligned with russia
Yes, it is possible through diplomacy, something we Europeans have been excellent at until Ursula von der Lying came to power. Why would Russia want to destroy Europe if we are the biggest buyer of their gas? Russia would shoot itself in the foot. Now that we are no longer buying gas from Russia, we can expect anything. Or we can get to the negotiation table.
The European union is a joke. European union needs to stop talking and start spending money on defense.
Why the human being has to be always in war, making bombs, weapons,etc?  What if all the countries stopped making weapons of destruction and instead, invested the money in making a better home for all of us! Imagine what advanced civilization we would be. I just don't understand  Ps: sry for my bad English😅
europion army is the way forward with 5-10yr built to completely become ready
USA and Russia fought on the same side in WW2. Stranger things have happened. EU should chill.
Well they wont get through Poland that easly, Russia was never capable of conquering Poland on their own and nothing will change, the only times they succeded they had to team up.
So essentially Europe needs to become America in order to replace America 😂😂😂 brilliant!!
If Russia is so strong, why is Ukraine handing them their ass?
If China and Russia come for Europe, without the US, Europe stands no chance. We need to stand together and all stand strong
America needs to pull out of nato. I’m not allowing my sons to go to war for the European countries woke minds.
No more money for Ukraine it is nice AMerica will sit this one out and Europe is stepping up. Good job guys give us a break. We have to repair the damage the democrats did to our country first, we had 11 million people invade America.
Europe has been completely pacified by being America's backwater. Uncle Sam always brought some sweets, but that's about it. We got fat, lazy, and we've forgotten that history exists. We raised our boys to be soft, taught people that patriotism is evil and redundant, no wonder Europe is being left behind in history's rear view mirror.  My question: if our allies treated us like this, were they really our allies, or were they just occupiers?
In the remake of Total Recall  there was no Americas or Europe.  Only the UK and Australia........
adjusting for the fact that things are a lot cheaper in Russia???? holy moly. you lost all credibility with that. you basically tripled what they spent because things are cheaper in Russia? unbelievable propaganda. you had to twist yourself into a pretzel for that one. nato has been slowly but surely cornering Russia and yet you portray Russia as some aggressor for increasing spending on their military.
I am india after see this situation in Europe.  history really repeated it self this situation also happen in india in 1000ad when northern Indian kings military became weak or make alliance with chola empire in early 11th century chola empire will defend gangaltic plains from foreign invaders but in mid 12th mid century chola empire betyeared northern kings then foreign invaders capture whole northern india in 1192 ce  Same situation also happening in Europe
Looks like we never learned from WW1 and 2. If it repeats itself we're.
Ya the Afghanistans  f....d  Russia   so why not
RU  , soldiers tired just want to STOP , no more WAR for What ?  any benefits ... NO
The language barriers will never allow for a unified EU army
When I read the title to this video, I had to laugh for 5 minutes before clicking on it. WIthout the US, Europe is a paper tiger without teeth. The Russian bear would eat it for lunch, and still have time to be home for dinner.
I like that there is no kaliningrad on the map, it makes things much easier.
Arrived here when the "body language" documentary on Trump and Zelensky ended!.
UKRAINE WITHOUT ALMOST NOTHING THEY WHERE ABLE TO COUNTER RUSSIA'S SO AN EUROPEAN ARMY COULD DEFEAT RUSSIA IN COMBAT
Ukraine won’t plan on it until America leaves because why worry about the military when they’re economies is booming. They don’t give a fuck they will, though if America leaves.
All if these "Europe can build up its military and doesn't need the US" makes one very dangerous assumption, that Russia is going to sit back and give them the time to do this build up.
Why should they have to defend themselves. The whole world should be telling Putin to stop!!!!
Maybe Russia outspending Europe but I think half of this cash is going to oligarchs...
we, Europeans, were so good at war, what happened now? We need to get good at least at defending ourselves.
What US are doing to Europe is actually good for both sides. From US perspective, they don't want an overly dependent, weak, inexperienced ally. From EU perspective, they need to wake up and learn how to defense themselves if they really think Russia is gonna invade them (which I think impossible in the short-term)
The US nuclear bomb are no longer the deterrent it once was.  Russias' air defence and its hypersonic missiles has changed the whole situation.
The modern war theatre has changed. The question is can Russia defend against NATO
I’m sure y’all can handle Russia, the U.S needs to focus on fixing our country.
EVERY ONE WHO WANT TO LIVE LONG SAY I WITHOUT WAR!!!!
Leaving troops, but also their militaries bases all over europe right?
If the US pulled out of NATO  Europe could defend  itself for about 10  minutes ...........................maybe
Poland has been spending 5percent of their gdp and in doing so have amassed a huge military force and equipment .
The EU has two choices to make any of this a reality. Either federalize, and instate a presidential election so unify the EU, or to disband the EU altogether so that countries can be free to make their own choices on defense.  But even before any of that can happen. The EU must either remigrate a vast population of non-european people that don't hold the same values, or put those same people on the front lines in the military.
You're not talking about the negative sides of this. Such as EU army would be used against EU memberstates to keep them in line. Or the issue of corruption when it comes to standardized army. Which would also slow down weapon development due to lack of competition. Not to mention the huge tax increase when EU is already in decline regarding to economy.
A lot of the Russian figures are horribly inflated in reality. Vehicle production and equipment includes mostly old/repaired/salvaged (and reactivated) equipment, often obsolete in nature, and often at much greater cost than Russian leaders anticipated, with much less in reserve than anticipated. (stockpiles and mothballed equipment are stored improperly, falsely reported on, and often parted out and sold on the black market, so much of what they had on paper doesn't actually exist, hence why they're forced to dig into stocks of T-64s among other things and import cheap, less effective Chinese troop transports, etc) That's also ignoring how many figures are inflated on top of that, and how their economy is in crisis.  Their personnel losses are also massive and training and capability of their new troops is lacking, poor in quality, and anything but battle hardened. (if they didn't use tactics based on mass attrition, you might actually have battle hardened troops with improved experience and tactics improved from war-time experience, but the primary strategy is still just sending massive waves with high losses to gain relatively small portions of territory)  Ukraine, on the other hand, genuinely is battle hardened, and would indeed be an asset to the rest of Europe in a post-war scenario. It wouldn't take THAT much more European support to Ukraine to outright break Russia at this point, and would probably be cheaper (more cost effective in money and lives) to give more sooner than later, as the longer things drag out, the more Russia's limited capacity can continue to soldier on. (greater involvement back in 2022 easily could've done the same, and the reasons the US and Europe didn't do so is speculative, but on one end could include simply being cautious about escalation, while on the other could be pure greed and corruption in politics: ie a prolonged war benefits certain special interests in industry for profits and also benefits potential political manipulation for campaigning, legislation, etc, and producing propaganda to garner public support for said politics:   if you successfully end the war by investing more over a shorter period, you lose that potential and also knock Russia out of the picture as a realistic threat to security)  Nuclear weapons are always a concern, but not realistically as a response to any conventional warfare or economic pressure, it's just the same old concern for the MAD scenario and (to a vastly lesser, and even more unlikely case) potential use as scorched earth area denial when withdrawing from occupied territory or losing domestic territory. (Russia has proven unwilling to resort to any of that, and is already on the straits when it comes to popular support)   The biggest real-world risk would be missing this opportunity to properly break Russia (or at least Putin's Regime, or any expansionist style Regime ... opposed to say a return to form with a corrupt, but profitable business oriented, 1990s style Oligarch controlled regime). If another 2019 style ceasefire (or many prior agreements) is allowed to take place without treaties forming to properly, permanently secure the region in ways effectively impossible for subsequent governments (of all nations signing) to back out of or ignore if political winds change with subsequent administrations, then Russia will just start up its games again when it recovers.  If such a treaty can't be established with voluntary Russian withdrawl, then the best case would simply to be continuing the war until Russia actually collapses from lack of resources, economic stress, and internal conflict. ie if Putin/Russia is unwilling to make any sort of reasonable compromise that will actually ensure a lasting end to expansion along its Western borders, the best option is to properly support Ukraine's efforts while bolstering the entirety of Eastern Europe (aside of Russian puppet states), with sufficiently strong conventional military capability to prevent any possible incursions. (and make it very clear to Russia with proper posturing: the latter is what led Putin to invade Ukraine; he was convinced they were much weaker than they actually were and would be unable to obtain outside logistical support before capitulating, more like a large scale version of what happened in Crimea; he wouldn't have invaded had he grasped the reality of the situation in 2022)  Russia's current weakened state makes it the best opportunity to take action than has existed since Putin's expansion efforts originally started, or since he became President the first time around. (Russia was less dramatically posturing back then, and had a smaller sphere of influence, but also had a much larger stockpile of still viable Soviet-era equipment, things that have degraded dramatically in the following 20+ years through improper storage, lack of maintenance and corrupt black-market theft/sale of parts)  Plus, the results in Ukraine have ended a lot of the speculation of Russia's capabilities and technology, giving a more realistic picture of their readiness and real-world limitations. (where as, even at the beginning of 2022, it was much less clear how honest and accurate Russia's own claims of capabilities were)
The one language is English we are not living in 1900
The United States can also recall 16 Million Veterans and 15 Million Hunters should the need arise.
They can. It will be tough but they can. European Nation has been sheltered for too long and needs to have some good awakening.
You got to remember russia could not defeat afganastan,europe can defeat russia ,it won't be pretty but like afganastan they will be defeated.
A video game predicted Russia would rise to prominence and it is starting to look eerie but correct.  Can't think of the name of the game now, but it was like age of empires on Steroids.  You could play from like the stone age into the future.
and with all that russian spending and war building they can't move the lines in a 4 year war at all. is that strength?
Short answer: itll take atleast 8 years and massive changes. Your “democracy” and flooding in strangers that hate you really doesn’t assist you in the long run either.   Your rich elites also moved your industrial muscle to places like china and india, making elites rich at the expense of the normal worker whilst also weakening you geopolitically. In order to undo all of that damage, that’s gonna take a long time and a lot of effort.  So no, not without the USA for atleast about a decade, and if you had literally your entire voterbase on board with your anti-russian vision, which is also changing.  EU have been caught sleeping on the job. I remember back in 2016 when Trump was critiquing Germany and the rest of Europe for being in this dumb position, they laughed at him. Well well well, you allowed him to have the last laugh as you franticly try to figure your shit out
Ukraine does not need anything from the USA :Ukraine has minerals:same agricultural products : much wheat,apples,potates,dairy etc . Ukraine can pick up itself without the help of the USA .European Union can help in this ;EU needs Ukraine's mineral,gas, agricultural products : wheat, dairy ,etc . with that money Ukraine can pick up by itself .
Why cant they would be my question. The only thing that actually counts is the myth of that we couldnt which fitted in with the US foreign policy of expansion of nato.
Please stop ending every pause? In a question mark inflection intonation? It sounds like a 14 year old girl? I had to stop watching halfway through? Even though I found the topic interesting?
Btw Zelensky wasn't talking big like that when the U.S.A. was keeping his country afloat. This whole video is to assume Russia intends to fight all of Europe, which it is not even the case, though you would think the opposite from how  European leaders and news agencies talk. Europe has stepped way outta line after all the support we've given then. Let's not forget who almost single handedly funds NATO. It's nice to see country's true colors how they feel about us though. Europe hasn't had the best interest of the U.S.A. in mind for a very long time despite U.S.A. protecting all of Europe.
Sorry if this is worrying, but the biggest myth is that America would risk nuclear war on behalf of Europe.  The British and French have known that since the start of the cold war,that is why both countries maintain independent nuclear deterrent.  Unless Russian missiles actually hit American soil then America won't fire back. Yes regardless of cost Europe has to increase it's forces massively, if that means cutting foreign aid and putting all there resources into it.  It really has become that serious.
Or they can also just trade with russia and leave the US since they abandoned the EU
Germany is the 2nd oldest country in the world. Italy is 3rd. Europe in general is OLD. There are not enough young people to serve in their armies.
Germany, France, and Great Briton agreeing on who should make the mre’s and what should be in them. That would be fun to watch. Let alone rifles, Grenades, and bayonets. Who’s going to fight in this Army of Europe saving Ukraine? The majority of British youth say they wouldn’t fight to save Briton, let alone Ukraine. Sketchy days ahead.
As a German, I can confirm seeing Jan Böhmermann on the New York Times feels like watching your own deranged custom game character in a cut scene
As a Swede, seeing a German politician calling Hitler a socialist and still getting 20 % of the vote is WILD.  Edit: After reading 300 comments insisting that Hitler was a socialist simply because “Nazi” is short for “National Socialist,” I have to ask—do you know how words work? North Korea calls itself the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, yet it is neither democratic nor a republic. The “World Series” in American baseball does not mean the entire world participates. Words have meaning.  The most fundamental divide between the left and the right is their stance on equality. The right believes that some level of inequality is not only inevitable but beneficial to society. The left—socialists included—argue the opposite. You can believe whichever you like; I don’t care. But let’s at least be honest about definitions.  Socialism, as opposed to capitalism, is based on the belief that society functions best when economic equality is increased and the working class has greater influence. Hitler did the exact opposite—he banned unions, imprisoned socialists in concentration camps, and built an ideology entirely on the belief that human beings are not equal.  Yes, Hitler implemented state intervention in the economy—but not to promote equality. He did so to prepare for war against those he deemed inferior. Calling that socialism is like calling North Korea a democracy—wrong, misleading, and intellectually lazy.
Their leader is a lesbian married to Srilankan refugee in Switzerland and pays taxes in Switzerland. The far right is quite unpredictable these days
Every single comment is english but i feel like 90% are still from germans
Time zones are so crazy sometimes.... in Denmark it's Noon, in Canada it's 6am, in the USA it's the late 1930s Germany...
In germany we dont say "satirist Jan Böhmermann", we say: "Was macht denn der blasse dürre Junge bei der Times!?" and I think that sounds beautiful <3
"Boy, those Germans have a word for everything!"   -Homer Simpson
Little reminder that the other right wing parties in Europe kicked the Afd out of their EU parliamentary group for being to extreme.  Freakin Le Pen doesn‘t want anything to do with them. Let that sink in.
Some of this might sound like political satire, but please remember that we Germans have no sense of humor and if anything in this video might seem funny to an international audience it is completely unintentional.
Nicht der Crossover den ich auf meiner 2025 Bingo Karte hatte
Excellent video! I'm french living in Germany. Really liked the "French for 'slightly concerning'" 😁 All of the Germans I know are the gentlest, most respectful persons.  However, I heard a few times (enough) that AFD is not really far right. Which is concerning...
As a German I feel inclined to leave a comment stating that I am, in fact, German.
As a German I've to confess: For the most part he is right on point. But the US seems already to be ahead in that game…
I think part of the problem is that WW2's Nazis have become such ridiculous comic-book supervillains in the eyes of modern day viewers that people can't recognise the same patterns of behaviour that led to their existence. The German people weren't evil -- they were no different to you and I -- but they were fed a lie and a highly distorted form of politics and fear. But the lessons from history are being lost very quickly, and whenever someone tries to point them out ("hey, we're going down the same road"), they're quickly dismissed as being ridiculous.
I was almost too distracted by how funny this German man is to be concerned. Almost.
​ @VVardaddy  oder du arbeitest noch Mal an deinen Rechtschreibungs- und Grammatikskills. Denn an dem Kommentar ist nix falsch. Legasthenie?
Hi Arte <3 ! One Important Question:  Wasn´t Hitlers idea of "inventing National Socialists" a move to be argueable left populistic? Because his propagated narrative concludes in changing the system to defeat oppression and support social justice  - in addition - in the kontext of a new national identity - a society with the same mindset (Gleichschaltung). I´d rather debate than laugh about Böhmis jokes with his suggestive fear inducing tendencies, because actual left-ideologists claim that a new european identity to support social justice in europe is in fact a Thing!  Lets see if this german-tax-financed comedian in the video, get´s into an objective analysis of the subject, or, which is to be expected, set´s jokes to implicate what the viewer should laugh about and likewise think to set his manifested dogmas as the naturally grown truth.   Let´s check furthermore if this satirical culture of debate replaced the democratical-political debate in the so called "Mainstream Media" in Germany ... "Brandmauer" (funny german word for firewall) is a metaphorical explanation of the "'Altparteien" (funny german word for Warmongers) for not being able to debate democratically with a conservative point of view, and prevent the consequential burn of the illusion being free from Dogma and not incentivised for upholding provocations against Russia.  Fun is not always free from whats relateable - but whats relateable is not always free from fallacy. Thats why we need to talk deliberately without loosing our sense of humor. What are your thoughts about that, arte?
 @sixpoint3 firstly, get your spelling right. Secondly, this is labeled as an opinion. And also, I don’t see you going to smth like Fox News and complaining about blatant, as facts marked disinformation
You guys don't understand what is happening... You can't solve this problem with satire...   Either you solve this problem by actually understanding how bad Islam is for the world, or you will eventually UNDERSTAND how bad Islam is for the world. Pick your poison.
 @Wreck5tep  bist du irgendwie noch müde oder betrunken?... Arte hat eine der besten Online Mediatheken die es gibt.
Verstörender ist: die NYT veröffentlicht ein Böhmermann Video und Arte kommentiert😂 Ist schon wieder Weihnachten?❤
Böhmermann international - wenn die nationalen, warnenden Beiträge und Anti-Rechts-Songs nicht reichen, dann eben auch noch so.
​ @DasLicht2907 ​ Endlich mal ein User, dessen Profilbild auch tatsächlich ihn selbst zeigt.
 @plumbum4557  Nur weil es in deinem Profilnamen steht, solltest du nicht täglich eine Schüssel davon essen. Das kann schlimme neurologische Schäden verursachen. Wobei... da ist bei dir offenbar sowieso schon Hopfen und Malz verloren. Und die Fruchtbarkeit beeinträchtigt es auch... Weißt du was? Vergiss was ich gesagt habe und erhöhe die Dosis auf 2 Schüsseln am Tag. Danke :)
@theblackandredM wie kommst du zu deinen Aussagen. Kannst du das argumentieren oder nur mit leeren Worten um dich schmeißen? Ich kann mir denken warum du kein Profilbild hast
 @plumbum4557  Wie kommst du denn auf das Thema Profilbild? Ich habe dich doch auf deinen Profilnamen und nicht auf dein Profilbild angesprochen. Oder ist da jemand im Oberstübchen nicht ausreichend bemöbelt um Kommentare zu lesen?
@theblackandredM "ICH" sprech dich auf dein Profilbild an, wie du andere Kommentatoren falls du das vergessen hast. Licht aus? 🤣 Ihr seid echt ne besondere Gattung. Hockt anonym an eurer Tastatur und kläfft die Leute argumentlos an. Keine Freunde? Hast Angst im echten Leben deine Meinung zu äußern und bist in deinem kleinen Universum der große Tastenheld? Ah, und damit wir auf deinem Niveau bleiben: Nachts ist es kälter als draußen
 @Wreck5tep  Ist das nicht der sender der kommt wenn man sich auf die Fernbedienung setzt und die alle nur Französisch reden? 😂😂
 @plumbum4557  Ist schon okay, dass du vor lauter Aufregung nicht mehr in der Lage dazu warst, zu erkennen welche meiner Antworten an dich gingen und welche nicht. Dass du fälschlicherweise so schnell darauf geschlossen hast, dass meine Antwort mit dem Profilbild wohl an dich gehen musste, zeigt auch in der Hinsicht schon sehr vieles. Es ist vor allem schön zu erkennen dass es dich so tief getroffen hat. Immer schön weiter aufregen. Eine möglichst lang erhöhte Herzfrequenz erlöst die Menschen um dich herum frühzeitig von dir.
Hey guys! Why aren’t you asking WHY this party is popular? Maybe because the other ones are doing a crappy job running your country? Let’s have you look inward yet again
​@theblackandredMja, hat schon weh getan. Ich finde, es geht nur ein Verbot dieser "Partei".
Aber wirklich. Und Böhmermann + new York times... and sis german acczent 😅😂😂😂😂😂
@theblackandredM du raffst es wirklich nicht🤣 Strampel ruhig weiter. Mich soll das aufregen was es von sich spuckt?Ein anonymer Winzling? 🤣Da gibt es schlimmeres. Fang mal an ehrlich zu dir selbst zu sein denn das bist du nicht. Dir ist hoffentlich bewusst dass wir auf diese hohle Weise ewig weitermachen können. Ist mir zu blöd. Ich werde dir nicht mehr antworten. Darfst aber ruhig weiter lästern wenn es deine Hödlinos füllt
"Feed" ? Warum können Sie nicht schreiben, ohne englische Wörter zu verwenden ?
 @altaischurale7324  Weil das ein gängiges Wort in den sozialen Medien ist, was von wirklich jedem Medium genutzt wird. Zumal die Übersetzungen (Futter, Eingabe, Zufuhr, ...) nur zu Verwirrungen führen würden.   Du hast doch Internetzugang. Google doch einfach die Bedeutung eines Wortes, wenn du sie nicht kennst :)
oi, das sind ja die die gute dokus mit dem buget von einem besen und ductape machen
It feels really strange to see a German comedian in English teaching Americans our history and actual state. Or something like this.
However, the public broadcaster forgot to label this as a public broadcaster production
 @dwadd7528  It's a humor many americans do not understand. The correct word is satire. Germans are Weltmeister in satire.
Oh man … I’ve no idea what you are talking about, even tho I see it’s a game reference.  I feel my age more and more these days. 🥴
I hope this video is seen by millions.  If, as Mr. Böhmermann states, the AFD is projected to get 20% of the vote in the upcoming election, this could have far-reaching consequences across Europe.  Among other things, I was shocked to learn what Adenauer, widely admired for his leadership and statesmanship, said about the power of the Jews in America.  😳
 @nein4282  yeah this is weird  Böhmermann , one the reasons why I don't watch German Tv , Specially  the State run Propaganda Channel ZDF . Responsible for  the Chitshow that is Germany today
​ @qili3899 Das Kapital is the same as mein kampf?  Have you read both books?
As an American, it sounds weird hearing him speak English and not German 😂😂
Still much better than Alice Weidel being interviewed by Musk. Jan Böhmermanns work is always facts based and that's what this piece is about fact based satire.
Ho, ho, ho. Germans Comedians can be funny. But „Böhmi“ is probably more our moral policeman. And by putting these two words together you see, no fun. And right now the situation (not only in Germany) feels very concerning.
​ @pinktfatrabbit it is not. It was produced by his own company. What has Germany's public broadcasting to do with it?
 @dwadd7528 You like to think in German stereotypes, huh? But isn’t it racist?
Böhmermann does a lot of good investigative work on German TV. I personally like his tone when he delivers fact-based satire. This piece here is great. Watch it, Americans. There is truth behind the jokes.
 @dwadd7528  yep, as a german i can confidently say: they mostly are not
 @nein4282  Your word "deranged" is considered ableist because it stigmatizes mental illness by associating it with irrationality, danger, or instability. This perpetuates harmful stereotypes and contributes to the marginalization of people with mental health conditions. Using inclusive language helps avoid reinforcing these negative biases.
especially someone who has worked so hard to strengthen far right extremists as Jan Böhmermann.
​ @danilomodus5651  your English spelling might be such as accurate as your German spelling. This is a typical AfD voter. 😂😂😂😂
​ @WichtrudK  It feels really strange to see an American right winger teaching Europe democracy, lol.
“Kackeisamdampfen” is just a final little in-joke for German-speakers on the expense of non-speaker’s stereotypes.   Quite liked it, actually.
@mattdo98  most Americans in the comments here are right wing, so....
“Kackeisamdampfen” is just a final little in-joke for German-speakers on the expense of non-speaker’s stereotypes.   Quite liked it, actually.
 @grysufeuermelder9602   I speak Spanish  and several Languages  how many do you speak  And certain Words I Change on Purpose because of EU Censors And Germans allways think they know everything  better even 12 Year olds
 @danilomodus5651  thats not how the Public Television works. They are not state run, they are also not paid by taxes because they get the money directily through the people. You as a citizen pay money directly to the ZDF no taxes go into the public broadcast. This is written down in the Rundfunkstaatsvertrag which is the contract between the state and the public broadcasting channels. As such they are two seperate entitities othewise why would you need a contract.
 @pinktfatrabbit  and also get explanations that this is payed political marketing.
 @nichtda23131  Look at the credits, all the people who work for the public broadcaster are listed there.
 @tobiaswinter1358  The video is produced with money from the German state.
 @qili3899  If you want to see socialism, look at the 2nd dictatorship (GDR/DDR) that Germany had.
hes not a comedian, hes just a muppet from the muppet show
 @maryk8800 That's a good joke! Is that the reason why he keeps losing in court?
​ @WichtrudK  Calling this selfrighteous ultragutmensch a comedian is a grieving insult to all the real funny people in the world.
 @WichtrudK  ...hearing the name Böhmermann and the term "actual state" in one sentence always throws me off.
Apparently someone has to, because they don't know whats going on here and talk bs about the elections ​ @WichtrudK 
 @dwadd7528  , we cannot say since what Böhmermann does is not comedy, but satire.
 @pinktfatrabbit  Did the ZDF actually produce this? I don't think so. So what do you mean? Maybe I misunderstood.
​ @dwadd7528 of course nobody can get even close to the most successful American comedian which is Joe Rogan..  Glass house and stones and stuff
 @pinktfatrabbit  well it's not, it's an opinion piece in an entirely different outlet, just because he works at the ZDF doesn't mean he can't do something in the NYT
what s funny to me is the fact that this guy thinks he s a comedian.
When fascism returns, it will not say “I am fascism” it will say “I am anti-fascism”
@grysufeuermelder9602  i speak Spanish ( and to evade the German Cen-sorchip Apparatus)  and I know they let Children  Vote in Germany,  but I don't  think you are old enough  And I Vote with a Tactical  Approach  Because Germany in the last 4 years is the worst Country  I have lived  So I Vote CDU  , the only Solution to get rid  of the  Current Chancellor If you Vote for any other Party he will be the Chancellor   A 15 % Approval rating Chancellor
 @dwadd7528   He deliberately speaks bad German-English, I'm not sure if that's clear to everyone.  He calls himself a comedian, but I think of him more as an investigative journalist and he does that really well.
How is AfD bad in ANY way??? Let alone ext reme right???
​ @pinktfatrabbit  I did, thank you my very intelligent little friend. The production company UE llc is, in part, a sub sub subsidiary of the ZDF. That's what confused you, I assume. However, it doesn't mean that all of its productions are automatically "public broadcaster's productions". It would be, if the ZDF commissioned & approved it, like e.g. Böhmermann's show ZMR. That's why you can find "commissioned by ZDF" in ZMR's credits & the public broadcaster note on YT. The fact that the ZDF isn't mentioned in the credits of this video heavily implies that they've not been involved.
 @hansg8731   I call this Election Interference through a foreign entitity , by a Government  paid Actor
@annaxyyxanna When fascism returns, it will not say “I am fascism” it will say "When fascism returns, it will not say “I am fascism” it will say “I am anti-fascism”.
​@dwadd7528  sat is corrrekt. Or let's say: We Germans adapt our humour strictly to the topic.
​ @qili3899  well you are completely wrong. Far left wants a lot of equality and no social hirarchy. Far right wants unequality between humans (like germans are better then other "races") and a lot of social hirarchy, where the strongest individual gets to the top and the weak are left behind with minimal support (which is why the AFD is for low minimum wages, no Bürgergeld and less taxes for the richest)  Some people who are far right might claim to be far left but they really aren't, the just confuse the terms or missuse it intentionally to hide their true identity.
​ @dwadd7528  the thing is, it's rather dark humor regarding a quite awful political situation with the AFD getting so many voted. It's not only suppose to be funny, but show how fd up this party is.
@rolandfunk4022 I am not German which may explain why I failed to see any humor in his statement.  I am not sure how calling someone a Nazi is supposed to be funny. Please explain, does Hey Hitler Roland  sounds funny to your?
​ @danilomodus5651  bot... ZDF is not staterun propaganda. the government is not controlling the topics of televison as in russia or elsewhere. Thats complete BS.  Even farright parties are invite to talkshows and get to say their oppinions.  If you tell me who exactly is influencing ZDF how, I'll listen, but you can't, right?
​ @inotaishu1  no, Jan Böhmerman has critizised Erdogan, Putin, Trump and now the AFD, he is not strengthening far right, he is opposing them. What have you smoked? 😂
 @qili3899  honestly, I feel it's more of a circular spectrum than a linear one. Or perhaps a sphere would be a better representation of the political spectrum.
Wow!  One of the very best analogys I've ever seen. You are n artist!
Kannst du mir das irgendwie mal übersetzen? Hab’s nicht verstanden, trotz guter Englischkenntnisse..
 @dwadd7528  we got some pretty good comedians, but this guy isn’t a comedian. He’s political left-wing journalist making hefty jokes only about right wing politicians
To be considered: he is not a comedian! He is a left-wing journalist and hosts a “satirical” TV show in Germany
 @hansg8731  It's humor nobody understands including germans. germans only laugh at people tripping and falling..  every nation's comedy has satire, it is about how intelligent and funny you can make it.
​ @the_mastermage It's government mandated payment that one can't even opt out of, just like a tax, even if you don't watch their crap.
​ @dwadd7528 you don't get it😅. He doesn't try to be funny watch it again and think about it. 😊
 @fifthbusiness1678 the AFD is not the nazi party, the whole thing was satire which means a joke
BRAVO and for you own custom great response of the issues kiddo!
​ @dwadd7528  That's not true. His humor is like Jimmy Kimmel's. A lot of sarcasm and a lot more irony that is again meant cynically. So 3 meta levels full of humor.
 @the_mastermage  Public broadcasting gets money directly from each household in Germany, but that doesn't mean it's not influenced by the state. In fact, the broadcasting councils that control the programming are stuffed with members of government parties.
Your comment is perfection. Sau geil. Ich musste gerade so lachen.
Just that you have a basic classification of this german guy, he is more or less our Whoopi Goldberg, but less successful.
 @dwadd7528   You probably don't know the difference between satire and comedy
 @jaideepshekhar4621  "How is AfD bad in ANY way??? Let alone ext reme right???" Watch the video a few times, maybe you get it.
 @dwadd7528  german comedians are funny,most of them are very funny,you need a bit german culture.
The guy on this show said "We're good at inventing Nazis". He might've meant it as partly a joke, but there's definitely some truth to it. They're currently enabling a new Nazis in the middle east. Slow learner I suppose.
As another German, I can say seeing this and seeeing Investigative Comedian Böhmermann compared with John Oliver is like seeing People od decency and Common Sense uniting in the World. We need this against the Oligarchs and wanna-be Dictators uniting and trying to undermine the free and democratic world.
 @nein4282  I can't relate to that explanation but it feels weird + wrong to me, too.
Jan Böhmermann is basicall our own John Oliver, if you Americans need context.
 @jimmyjones1079  It isn't supposed to be funny. It's to wake you up. To get you think. It's called political satire.
 @danilomodus5651  So you can ridicule yourself in more than one language. cOngrATulationes from your CeNsOr 🤣🤣🤣🤣
As a GERMAN i am proud, that the NYT gave this wonderful cabaretist the stage to exactly explain, what is going on in germany, especially in those former soviet influenced eastern parts. He is one of the best in our country. Thank you NYT !!!
 @dwadd7528   no him ... there are a few... but mostly they are bad no matter the  comedy style...
​ @fifthbusiness1678  I agree with you, I've seen Adenauer as a European statesman only, which he was certainly. The context of the quote is missing, I hope his dry humor got lost...
​@dwadd7528  maybe you're just bad at judging comedy and satire. You didn't like it? Fine move on
​ @Marikola9752  I agree that Böhmermann has a too great emphasis on pointing out what is "morally right" bc he has journalistic ambitions. I sadly must also agree that the political situation is critical and so one can only hope the newly elected government can reestablish trust in politics
As a Jewish person who lost grandparents in Ukraine during Holocaust, I think this video is misleading and grossly manipulative! 😮Germany lost its freedom of speech and its identity. It's time to come back to the human-centric common sense policies. ❤
Youtube just took my comment down! Put it back, please 😮😮😮😮
 @danilomodus5651  propaganda xD. yeah you are living in a bubble my friend
 @dwadd7528  How could they be funny when they are political activists first and foremost?
As a Canadian I can say we have a stock pile of marshmallows that we roast on the dumpster fire to the south of us.
 @danilomodus5651  dude can you please stop talking bullsh*t ? thanks a lot!
 @hansg8731  They are really not, but his police rap was a banger.
​ @dwadd7528 ...because you don't have to think for comedy - but for satire you have to!
 @qili3899  yeah... the usual old refrain from the far right -.-
Ich musste so laut lachen, dass meine Nachbarn es gehört haben WTF hahahahahahha
 @dwadd7528  Böhmermann is not a comedian. He is a political activist of the far left. In a free country we have to live with people like him. The point is, we are forced to finance him and others with our compulsory levy for TV and radio which is subject to public law. And that's the opposite of freedom.
 @dwadd7528  He not a comedian. He is a propagandist of the government.
 @qili3899  It is not. In fact, it's the exact opposite. Are they both dangerous? Yes, but they have completely different opinions. You know, that's the whole reason why everyone hates the other side...
​ @mattdo98 "Truth based"? Rather highly opinionated on behalf of the ruling leftists.
That​ guy is the most German "comedian" ever. Absolutely unfunny, and besmirching everyone not fitting into his political narrative.
 @dwadd7528  You missed the point: The topic isn't funny. That's maybe why you couldn't laugh.
 @dwadd7528  I was about to comment that many of his jokes probably are lost on Americans or non-Europeans in General.
 @fashion010101  as a German who lost grandparents in the war I think this video is point on and pretty accurate, we always have free speach and we have a better identity compared to the nazi one. Since 1945 we have human centric and common sense policies compared to holocaust times Germany. Seems you’ve been reading afd and bsw propaganda too much.
There is no political ideology that is more far right than the one found my Mohammad !
@HumanistGordian  I would politely disagree! There is very little freedom of speech left in Europe, at least not for the people whose opinions differ from the mainstream. 🤔
Leider weiß er nicht was das ist weil Gamer ja äh nur verurteilt werden
​ @pinktfatrabbit where do you take this from? There is no mentioning of this at the credits. And if you think this is from German public television, then you do not know, that they do not get money from the state, but from the people. Every German pays GEZ fees which is used for the German public television and is no money from the state. German public television is independent from the state and belongs to the people.
@pinktfatrabbit  nobody of the government is telling him what to do. That is the point.
@pinktfatrabbit  Everything else would be a conspiracy theory unless you investigate and prove it.
​ @pinktfatrabbit  as you can see up left, this is produced for/by the NY times
This is probably the most meaningless comment I have ever seen.
 @pinktfatrabbit  no dude, they work for the Bild und Tonfabrik. A independent production company that sells its products to anyone who wants to buy them.
Please watch the Marsh Family with their parody #Hitler wasn’t Socialist# on YouTube. Informative and entertaining.😉🙋🏻‍♀
Well Hitler / NSDAP where socialists, but not the biased way yall mind believe. In fact, they maybe had different headlines for their goals, but the way to reach them was absolutely the same.
 @nexusxmoon that’s BS! Hitler called himself a national-socialist which is a completely different thing. In the end, hitler was a fascist dictator which was responsible for millions of killed humans in World War II and more than six million killed humans in the Holocaust. The statement: ‚Hitler was a socialist’ is as wrong as ‚Selenskyj is a dictator‘ or ‚Putin is a flawless democratic‘!
I´m basically going to vote today, solely to give 1 vote against them. Even if people are thinking of voting for them, they don´t want to understand, that what is happening in the US right now, will happen here aswell, if AfD comes to power... We have a real-time example and people just refuse to see it.
I will go voting right now and will do my part to prevent this scenario.
@R.EGrantham Both fascism and anarcho-communism both have their philosophical origins in Sorelian syndicalism.
The problem lies with bad education.  Yes, Hitler did call himself a Nationalsozialist, but that doesn’t mean he had any socialist policies in mind. I can call myself a lark and will still not sprout wings. What his policies were, especially in the beginning, would today be called populist, which often, at first glance, masks as socialism. It is also correct that Hitler, in his time, was not a Conservative. He was opposed to the conservative political fractions that existed during the Weimarer Republic. But of course he was a Fascist. Obviously, not being a Conservative does not make one a Socialist or a Communist, as there are many other political ideologies.  But because too many people these days just mindlessly equal conservatism with fascism, even in historic contexts, Alice Weidel could spout her nonsense and some people still believed her.
Actually he was a socialist. His party was in fact even named socialist. They stood for very socialist structures, not unlike North Korea nowadays. If you do not see the parallels between both regimes, you must be blind. There are even books published about that topic. The nationalism was only a part of the identity. Is it so difficult to see, that something can have parts of left and parts of right ideology? Also for your information: Germany has been left-extremist for the last 10 years. So far left, that literally everything different seems like "far right". But there is no "Far-right" comeback in Germany. Problem is, that the other parties, only offer very far left politics. This so called "far-right" party, is not very far-right. They are conservative maybe. Nothing more. Its blown out of proportion by the leftists and Böhmermann is a known Progagandist for the far-left. Do not be fooled.
But what does that say about the other parties if you STILL vote for the AfD?
Hitler was a Socialist. Marxist ≠ Socialism, Marxists have kind of appropriated the word, there are many brands of socialism. Hitler was not a Marxist, but he was definitely a Socialist. It wasn't called "National Socialism" in name only, it's based on Sprengler's Prussian Socialism.
That is about the only criticism I have ... but then you should be concerned about "the ENTIRE anglosphere" who has that same opinion ... "Hitler was a socialist and thus left-wing" is a standard "gotcha" which is frustrating to argue against.
 @venanziadorromatagni1641  Because you are not allowed to talk about it in Germany, it is now left hanging in the air.
 @nexusxmoon   national socialist is a ? but he wasnt communist
I am not surprized by your reaction honestly. I lived in Sweden and I have always been appalled by your åsiktskorridoren and how little informed Swedish people (especially the left-wingers) are about other non-English speaking European countries. Note: nazi is the short form of NationalSOZIALIST. The NSDAP introduced a lot of social reforms in the 1930s (e.g., overhaul of the pension system, freecare for children), in a time when it was still legal to auction children in Sweden. BTW I am not even German, but at least I did my homework as a free man which is to question everything I have been taught.
@PETRiCH0R030   who is yall? I'm not associated with any side, so keep generalisations to yourself
 @endlessstudent3512  If your main argument for Hitler being socialist is that his party was named the National Socialist Workers Party doesn’t that imply that North Korea is a democracy since the country is technically named Democratic People’s Republic of Korea?
nazism meaning national socialism. Yes he was a socialist but also had ties to far right wing ideas of dictatorship
 @HalterWalter4  Dictatorships aren't right or left, they are on both sides.
As a German it's just as wild. And that is an understatement.
Nationalsocialism was not entirely leftwing, but it was a social-revolutionary worker party and ideology in most parts and indeed incorporated many elementary leftwing ideas. It was a mixture of rightwing and leftwing.
 @JohannesWagner82  no it's not, the national-socialists in fact had much in common with socialists, however only within their inside crowd. Calling the nazis socialist is accurate from the perspective of their inner policies towards their own people.
time and time again, repeating the sames mistake not learning from history because that is what humanity is - to gain power by any means
"Hitler was not Marxist therefore he must've been Wall Street Rockfeller free market capitalist totally!"
Sounds like your education system is bad, too. Of course he was a Socialist, his political career even started with the communist workers and soldiers council in Munich in 1919, which declared a communist dictatorship.
 @hildebrandgotenland4823  No, the Nazis were clearly and undeniably right-wing extremists. When the Nazis were not yet in power, there was a wing that claimed to be anti-capitalist and revolutionary in order to win over left-wing workers. Hitler had the leading figure Gregor Strasser liquidated in 1934 after seizing power. And that also meant the end of this current. The basis of the National Socialist worldview is the unequal value of people, which ultimately led to the racial madness of the Nazi regime. This is the exact opposite of the left-wing ideal of equality. If you don't want to see the obvious, feel free to find out about relevant expert opinions.
He was a socialist, have you ever opened a book ?
Not socialist, communist - those are two pairs of shoes, as we say in Germany.
yes, it's shocking to the rest of us Germans, too. It's also wild how many here in the comments are also arguing this point, that he was a socialist. As if everything and everyone is exactly what they call themselves...The GDR had the word 'Democratic' in it's name. But it did not make it so. Hitler wasn't a socialist, anymore than Trump is a Christian.
Well as another Swede, is that not correct? Hitler was a nationalsocialist. Alot of nationalsocialist policies are quite similar to Socialdemokraterna during that time period. Folkhemmet is directly comparable to the nationalsocialist ide of volksgemeinschaft.
AH Rose to power in 1933 and undid the Socialist policies of the Democratic Socialists of the Weimar Republic.  He did it just to be a naughty boy.  He was a hard-line gold standard capitalist and a borderline anarchocapitalist.  You must always think on terms of us vs them. "Socislidm fairness" vs "antisocialist intentional non-fairness" Always.  Say: Beh-Eeee....  Zehr gut! Great herd.
What I've noticed living in Germany for 10 years now is a rather poor knowledge of the earlier history of Prussian imperialism/Kaiserreich (seizure of Polish lands in the 18th century and overseas colonies), and while the Germans were no worse in this than other nations like France, England or Russia (which continues to have colonies, i.e., the lands of the Far East that were seized from the indigenous population), but Germans tend to put all the blame on the Nazis, when the view of oneself as better than others has roots from earlier, it results in a kind of acquiescence to feelings of superiority and lack of guilt towards everyone except Israel
​ @endlessstudent3512 Juche has started to become more of its own thing since the 70's. The first generation of Kims were more classic marxist-leninist.  Right now, it incorporates more nationalism. Individual courage and heroism became important. It still has a central role for the state. Like a constant war readiness economy striving for autarky.  In their propaganda, North Korea is the best place on Earth. The world outside is full of threats. Only independence through autarky, the guidance of the Great Leader and constant vigilance keeps us safe from those who threaten the nation. The nation must have unwavering unity.
As a Swede I am very glad that AfD is growing
Marxist and national socialism are different, especially in terms of values, but they are both socialism non the less.
​ @hildebrandgotenland4823 There was proto-nazis like the Thule society. But it turns out that starting a mass national movement in the early 29th century without a lot of working class people is hard.
As a German, for starters, I find it awkward reading "as a (whatever nationality put to be taken more seriously)" on the YT comment section – Why? Because if we talk FACTS your backgrounds doesn't matter.   Second, AS A GERMAN, I confirm Hitler was a socialist, however, a NATIONAL-socialist. For the non-Germans: That's where the short term "Nazi" comes from.
​ @dnhg9730 The core idea is nationalism. So much nationalism that we are all gonna be part of the same mythical nation-soul. Like a big gloop that binds people together.
As much as I like Jan, I am fully ashamed that he is so right about everything he says. Seems like humans in general and specifically Germans are not able to learn.
 @deagle2yadome696  also the A in NSDAP stand s for Arbeiter "Worker" party. But why dont you just read the NSDAP party program and the 4 year plans they made, left wing socialism through and through.
The part of his philosophy that to him was socialism, was that the individual was to subordinate itself completely to the state. It's an anti-individualism that is shared by socialism. He also incorporated some left wing policies to appeal to the German working class. However, he did not believe in centrally owned means of production, which is the main goal of socialism. Also, as others pointed out, his belief that humans and races are fundamentally unequal too stands in complete contradiction with socialist beliefs, which endorsed internationalism. Lastly, Hitlers political platform during his rise to power was to a large degree based on opposing socialist movements in the Weimar Republic at the time.
​ @PETRiCH0R030 nope, you're wrong. There are quite some similarities, but it's not the same.
@halfmoon2488 yes yes very true just saying that hitlers ideology was both sided :) but very t rue
As a German, it is also wild to me. Especially since there are actual interviews and reports of Hitler still around.  For those who don't know, Hitler kept socialist in the parties name to take the term away from the generally popular communist party and just defined the term to his liking as being social to his own race.  Nothing we would associate with modern socialism.
@GustafHauRuck  The core of it is nationalism. You and me and everyone else have a national uniqueness. So much that it becomes a mythical force, a nation-soul of sorts. A big patriotic goop. Any disagreement is not just a political difference, it is a threat to the very soul of the nation. The leader is so attuned to this soul that to disagree is to disagree with the nation-soul itself.
It's not that different from the Sverigedemokraterna who get similar results.  I'm reasonably certain you can find plenty of Sverigedemokraterna who brought that old chestnut themselves.
It is horrible for me as a German.  I have (former) friends who used to vote social democrats or the grren party who now vote for the AfD.  And the fanatically believe that the AfD has the answers.    We all learnt in our history lessons, that Hitler won over the people by giving simple (and wrong) answers in a complex situation, and we all were convinced that would not happen again.  Yet, here we are.  And even the verbatim citations of Nazi rhetoric form the 1930ies by Björn Höcke does not put people off.  Neither does their social conscience my former friends had 10 years ago but now seem to have lost.
As a German it‘s also wild for me 🫠 She also called him a left-wing communist
 @Pietje_Piraat  He was … he was the leader of the NSDAP … the S stands for Sozialistische … I’m Belgian … I think its “wild” that Germans don’t seem to know that (this comment won’t stay here for long … they are deleting everything that goes against the narrative … shameful)
 @xmartinx357  No it isn't. The whole structure was socialist, with the addition of the nationalism, which in the end made them extremist-right. But the decrease of economys independence and power by shifting it to the government, the centralistic hierarchy, the antidemocratic nature etc. are very much indicating left ideology. In the End, the whole 3 Reich was labeled as "right-extremist", but that was a decision. It was a wild and horrible mix of different ideologies. But I am currently seeing something very interesting. The antisemitism is currently on the rise in GER. BUT the people pushing it are mainly muslims (very many haters of jews there) and...the Leftists. Like the antifa, the fridays-for-future, the lgbtq-movments etc. They are the antisemites in Germany right now. Not the right wing at all. So antisemitism cleary is not a characterisitic of the right, but very much one of the left. I find that interesting.
 @PETRiCH0R030  thats why the democratic republic of north korea is democratic. ;) knowledge about history is so low nowadays
​ @nexusxmoon  yeah an saying North Korea is a democratic Republic is not untrue 😂
 @nexusxmoon  Nothing to do with being a dirty word. But he just factually wasn't a socialism. He just coopted some of the terminology to appeal to German workers and the working class. I mean, Stalin was also god awful.
Didn’t Jimmie Åkesson do very similar things and didn’t statsministern lie to Hédi Fried?
Just in case, as a German I am already looking at where I could emigrate to. That is indeed not an easy task these days
Joseph Göbbels himself said, that national socialism is close to communism. And many historians classify  national socialism as left.
He is a National Socialist, not the same as Communism at all.
 @SophiaZoe  Arnulf Baring hat die Nazis in einer Münchner Runde ganz eindeutig als "links" eingeordnet.
As a German, this is wild too. Scacy even. Very scary. (btw I heard Sweden is a nice country. See you soon perhaps?)
 @egioch  You must think North Korea is democratic because it's called the Democratic People's Republic of Korea
So you are telling me he was a  "National Socialist" but not a Socialist? Are you able to read? 🙄
​ @endlessstudent3512  Here guys you can witness a propaganda bot in its natural habitat.
Germany has gone so far extreme left than a return to centre seems right wing 🤦‍♂️🤡🤡
he was a national SOCIALIST though Sir. there is red socialism and brown...branches of the same tree.
Because Hitler was a socialist. He literally promoted equality of the german race and destruction of the classes (ie Worker, peasant, nobility; the destruction of the rich oligarchy), he was ironically also a feminist. Recommend studying what Völkisch Socialism was. Not to mention the socialist policies he promoted such as "Strenght Through Joy". He was an avid anti-capitalist, and a revolutionary. He did though, oppose bolshevism, but opposing a form of marxism-leninism doesn't make one not a socialist. Otto von Bismarck also promoted socialist values that helped the workers of germany.
 @mxxone16  Lol, so no ability to discuss a topic without framing and insulting people from you eh? I have, in a calm and objective manner, tried to explain where it comes from and considering that there are quite a few books published who analyze this question, this is not as easily answered as you would wish to. I am trying an open discourse. But you can only react with insults. Reflects worse on you than on me I think.
​@R.EGranthamThe differences were parametric: Different uniforms, symbols, names, marches. But the totalitarian system behind it was the same.
They are also calling democrats fascists and themselves democrats. So, the problem of this political sect seems to be a general disorder.
​ @MuellersMuskatnuss And I will go and vote for the only Alternative now.
Well it was called the National Socialist Party... So there is that
 @JohannesWagner82  fascism was inspired by socialism. And btw National Socialism isnt exactly the same thing as Fascism. In the end though, its best to just call it the third way in my opinion.
 @spaceowl5957  National Socialism is entirely different from socialism. But its great to see that Nazi propaganda still works 80 years later, because that was the point of the name: presenting as nationalists to those on the right, and as socialists to those on the left.
 @PETRiCH0R030  They weren't socialist in any meaningful way outside of their name. Private individuals still held the means of production.
As a Swede, you should be more concerned about your country becoming the third world.
 @endlessstudent3512  Except Germany privatized industries. The opposite of socialism, which would publicize industries. And Germany has been dominated by a center-right party for pretty much the past couple decades. The CDU is a center-right party, not far left. The far left party, Der Linke, is just making a comeback now.
 @lurchorgast4068  Except they privatized industry and supported industrialists, jailed trade unionists, and excluded the workers from the means of production.
 @JohannesWagner82  Load of nonsense right there. Just the same repetitive propaganda that has been spewed for decades.
 @user-cx4pk3us3n  Hitler wasn't an anarchocapitalist, nor was he even a gold standard capitalist. He was a corporatist at best.
 @cleanTron  Except they were right winged, empowered private industrialists, and privatized what was previously nationalized industry.
 @nexusxmoon then why did he killed all socialist and communist even before killing Jewish people?
 @PETRiCH0R030 why? Because that had “socialist” in their name? Is North Korea therefore democratic?
 @Mayu-xyxy  “At the end sexists and feminists are the same”, “And the end vegans and carnivores are the same”, “and the end white and black is the same”
Hitler was not a communist, but he definitely was a socialist. Nazi Germany had an extremely large state and many socialist reforms. They also took guns from everybody lol. I am not for AFD btw. I just don´t like when people think that libertarians are nazis when they are basically the opposite in almost every aspect.
 @Mayu-xyxy you think socialism is only and Economics Form? And national-socialism is Not even a eceomic form but a political ideology
 @nexusxmoon  "Hitler was a socialist. It is not a dirty word." No, it is utterly nonsense! The fascist movement in Italy and Germany used the fear of the middle- and upperclass of the socialism movements to gain power from the beginning. Hitler was a super-nationalist, but gave the companies economically freedom! His programs are very similar to the methods of the "new deal" with a far more nationalist edge to them.   In not a single bit of his policies, he has similarities with socialists!
​ @Max_Garden  It´s weird that we say that Lenin or Stalin were far left and Hitler far right, when these regimes were extremely similar. By the right left spectrum they should be opposite opposite in every way.
 @PETRiCH0R030  "n fact, they maybe had different headlines for their goals, but the way to reach them was absolutely the same."  Actually, I am quite interested, what you think their goals were and how they wanted to reach them....
Socialism wasn‘t always understood as Marxism back then. Fascist movements in other European countries during the 30s and 40s also referred to themselves as "socialist". Still they weren‘t marxists or communists and sadly parts of the AfD in Germany are promoting that the national socialists were in fact communists because it sounds more sympathetic to an American right wing audience that thinks more or less that every bigger authoritarian state has to be communist in one or the other way.
 @beratbayraktar4491  I was referring to the economic model, as was Weidel for context. Almost every follower of Austrian economics will call Hitler a socialist. Socially the national socialists were revolutionaries that hated conservatives. They even had their own nazified version of Christianity and the bible.
 @endlessstudent3512  Sorry, but your take on Germany being "left-extremist" for the last 10 years pretty much discredits anything that might be valuable coming from your side. No one actually invested in politics (not populism) who objectively looks at German politics in the past 10 years would in any way, shape or form classify it as "left-extremist". That's why I assumed your take to be rage bait by a bot. Now I am interested, what was the last time German politics was "center" in your opinion?
 @enkeltrik it seems you are the one that needs education on the matter.
 @venanziadorromatagni1641 you are twisting your statement until it’s unrecognizable, just so you can avoid saying what he was.
 @PersonaPariah  "both have their philosophical origins in Sorelian syndicalism." Also this is nonsense. In France and in Germany, the syndicalism was fought against by fascism movements after the end of WW1 and the uprising of marxism.  Only the fascist in Italy were more open to it, however this is due its more fascist corporatism ideas then the extrem social darwinism in Germany , which promoted ultimate competition. Even though the Nazis promoted themselves as a worker movement, they never saw it as a fight between class, but rather between races and nations. In fact, the biggest corporations in Germany got more economic freedom after Hitler took power.
​ @dervideominister ah yes thats why he made industries state owned did gave wages to labour unions 😂
​@endlessstudent3512  That's BS. The Merkel governments were neither right nor left and their decisions on economics have been quite conservative which has led to a lack of long term change and to the desolation of social and logistic infrastructure.
Because you dont live here and dont see how Media is disforming the Party.
 @Mayu-xyxy  1. Which Austrian economist says that?  2. Economic differences between National Socialism and Socialism:  - Hitler did not expropriate private companies but promoted large corporations  - National Socialism had some economic interventions, but that was a war economy and not socialism  - A central feature of classical socialism is common ownership of the means of production, which was not the case under Hitler  3. The Nazis saw themselves as revolutionary, but not in the socialist sense. They wanted to reshape society according to racist and nationalist principles. You can't just equate all revolutions and label them as socialist  4. They worked with conservative elites (e.g. military, big industry, bureaucracy) and suppressed socialist movements  5. What does the Bible part has to do with it?
 @head_space597 He has socialist in his party’s name, he must be socialist! 🤪
 @xmartinx357  as a german seeing this is even more wild 😭
You mean Hitler? Just spell the name of his party: National-Sozialisten. Then think again!
To be fair he called himself a socialist so...German National Socialist Workers Party...maybe you didn't know?
@ this may be true but it was not the topic here and I am not interested in having a fascist leader in Europe or the US again!
​ @endlessstudent3512 You had some partially legitim statements until you started to say that Germany had been left extremist for the last 10 years which is just the most stupid statement in history.
It is so bad. I hate to say it, but Germany is pretty dumb overall it seems.
@patriot-g3e  eh, when? And which ones? Please let me know!  The capitalism was never abolished, the private companies stayed private till the end. During the early years of power, the focus was on subsidy policies, However, the economy was more and more controlled directly especially after 1937 to prepare for war. These actions of taking control were first taken in agriculture and then - yes, you guessed it - energy sector ('drill baby drill)
Sorry but its true, Hitler was socialist, his party was socialist. Goebbels said : We are socialists because we see in socialism, which is the union of all citizens, the only chance to preserve our racial heritage and to recover our political freedom and renew our German state. Socialism is the doctrine of liberation for the working class.
​@StopThatUselessNoise oh jeez - Spengler's Prussian Socialism was a counter-concept to (supposedly foreign) socialism! "The working class must liberate itself from the illusions of Marxism." (Spengler) Therefore, one could argue that the term "socialism" is completely misplaced in Spengler's context, as he stands in direct opposition to its actual meaning. Instead, Spengler celebrated private property, competition, imperialism, capital accumulation, and "wealth, collected in few hands and among the ruling classes"—he merely wanted all of this to be understood from a national perspective, which was ultimately meant to benefit the German worker. So if you want - an early form of nationalistic triple down theory.
@SocialConservativeVox if you like nationalism that much, mind your own country.
 @Spritz86  "The NSDAP introduced a lot of social reforms in the 1930s BTW I am not even German, but at least I did my homework as a free man which is to question everything I have been taught." Well, you did your homework very very poorly, sorry. Labor law, social security, and welfare were expanded based on Bismarck's legislation during the Weimar Republic. The Nazis quickly adapted these programs to their social Darwinist ideas, denying benefits to those they considered "racially inferior" or disabled to maintain the "purity" of the "Aryan race." Work became a tool for fostering loyalty to the national community, with only those willing to work being recognized and temporarily supported.  After 1933, pensions were withdrawn from "enemies of the state" and reduced for Jews and "foreign races."  In short, these social programs were used to promote racist and social Darwinist ideals, contrasting with socialist principles.
Literally doesn't matter. Germany is going too far left, vote afd. To far right vote another. Extremism leads the same result whatever side you're on.
@ " but it was a social-revolutionary worker party" No, no, no!! The revolution ideas of the Nazis were NOT a social-revolution. As Spengler (a theorist of the Prussian "socialism") noted: English society is founded on the distinction between rich and poor, Prussian society on the distinction between command and obedience. In other words - the social part was a foreign idea. The German idea of socialism was one, that anyone in his position in the hierachy (remember - its Prussia) should work for the best of the nation, so everyone will profit of it - also the workers. A early form of the tripple down theory, so to speak. So right from the beginning, the Nazis cut social welfare programs to people they claimed were not useful for the health nation: Sick, elderly and of course, people of other races.
 @ramigilneas9274  Was it? Show me the case of actual socialism failing then. You know, democratically controlled workplaces? Strong democratic control by citizens for citizens? You don't know what you are talking about.
 @spaceowl5957  Just because someone calls themself something doesn't mean it's true. Seriously. There is NO way you are this gullible to believe everything you hear so blindly.
 @endlessstudent3512  Ah yes, someone calls themselves something it must be 100% true right? There is no way you believe everything so blindly right? No way you are this gullible to trust everything you hear first time and never question it?
@ Yes, the A is for Arbeiter, but it seems you have no idea, what the German nationalist worker movement means, do you? Check of instance Spengler: He defined the difference between German socialism and Englisch (or foreign) socialism! While English form is focused on wealth and class (greedy British), the German form was more noble orientated on the national volkskörper. He Spengler celebrated private property, competition, imperialism, capital accumulation, and "wealth, collected in few hands and among the ruling classes"!  In other words - a healthy volk guarantees health worker.
It's also wild as a german 😢  Went to the vote this morning.   #neveragainisnow
@ far right ideas have nothing to do with dictatorship. Authoritarianism is a separate dimension in the political spectrum, although socialism and communism cannot function without it because those are inherently authoritarian
@ ""Hitler was not Marxist therefore he must've been Wall Street Rockfeller free market capitalist totally!"" The Prussian ideal of socialism was completely capitalistic. Check Spengler, the Prussian theorist of socialism in Germany:  Spengler strongly opposed labor strikes (he describes them as "the unsocialistic earmark of Marxism"), trade unions, progressive taxation or any imposition of taxes on the rich, any shortening of the working day, as well as any form of government insurance for sickness, old age, accidents, or unemployment. At the same time as he rejected any social democratic provisions, Spengler celebrated private property, competition, imperialism, capital accumulation, and "wealth, collected in few hands and among the ruling classes He argued against the imposition of progressive taxation on the rich ("dry Bolshevism"), any shortening of the working day (he argues that workers should work even on Sundays), as well as any form of government insurance for sickness, old age, accidents, or unemployment.
I recommend you to look up books of the German historians Rainer Zitelmann or Götz Aly. The failed Austrian painter was indeed a socialist, and also a communist before Versailles.    Read people, read.
@ correct! Also check the definition of socialism by Spengler.  It is a pure capitalist form, where the worker should profit of a healthy volksgmeinschaft - a tripple down concept so to speak
 @endlessstudent3512  you have no clue whatsoever,  sorry! The structure of the Prussian understanding of socialism is full capitalistic and based on social darwinism!  Welfare programs were only supposed to be for Aryians and healthy individuals- other were quickly excluded after 1933. The economy was never state owned- private ownership was a high ideal for the Nazis.  However,  they expected,.that the private businesses work for the good of the Volk! The social ideal was far more important then the economic.   The idea was, that in a healthy, powerful Volkgemeinschaft, the members will have a good life, including the workers.
 @dervideominister  Problem is: The failed Austrian painter was not in favor of private property. "If private property was not used to further national socialist goals, it could be nationalized." He also founded the biggest state-run trade union in history: The DAF. Also for all the Marxists crying out: The Soviet Union did the exact same thing. Industry was dictated how much of their "profit" they were allowed to keep and how much they had to give away either as taxes or lay aside for the people they employ - they were merely just figureheads in their own factories, as the brownshirts from the SA simply just marched in and took them over from within. If you can bully the industrialists to do your bidding, you can keep a facade of "them supporting you", while it's actually just nationalization in all, but name. In fact, the failed Austrian painter himself said in Mein Kampf, that "If his party didn't understand how important their racism is, they would be doing nothing, but compete with Marxism on its own ground - therefore they would not have a right to call their world view a 'Weltanschauung'." He also very much supported the 40 hour work week back when it was indroduced (and he still was a communist, before the winter of 1919) - he even gave workers in coal mines days off, because mountians of coal were waiting in the factory to be delivered, but since the Reichsbahn was overstretched, they couldn't transport as much - so: Free vacation basically. The failed Austrian painter was also the one who introduced paid leave for pregnant women - even though that was fairly late in the war and so didn't change much.
​ @nexusxmoon  i agree is not a bad word, Hitler was not a socialist though
 @louisa.520  fascism was inspired by socialism??? Seriously,  where did you get your education???
Hitler was national socialist, his movement comes from socialismo. Hitler comes from the workers party, Mussolini from the Italian socialist. Perón, an important fascist figure in Argentina at the time, is the main figure of socialism in Argentina, left wing.
 @nexusxmoon  No he was not. He saw himself as a socialist and labeled himself with that word. His politics were very far away from being socialist. Please stop spreading this, for the love of our democracy.
 @mxxone16  until 1998. After that a slow movement into the left direction started. First slowly, but Angela Merkel, who did not fit into the CDU party at all, she would have been a much better fit for SPD or Linke, made the movement to the left much more pronounced. Her politics was very left and she changed the whole party CDU. It took a few years, but since roundabout 2015 it got very much obvious. Do you know how I got the epiphany just how much left-ideoligist Germany has become? I searched and listened to a lot of old inverviews and speeches of the politican in the 80/90th. A lot of things people, be it Geisler, Geis, Stoiber even Helmut Schmidt, who was considered left,  said would be considered extremist-right from current viewpoint. So why, would the political agenda of known politicians of the mid, nowadays be considered extreme right? Well---because Germany has slowly moved so far to the right, that everything remotely different is considered "right-wing". And stop insulting me. I am neither a hater nor a bot. A hater would insult you back and no bot would be able to write elaborate answers (yet).
He vas Völkisch, in other words pretty socialistic. A people's man, not of the aristecracy.
The NSDAP had socialist elements, e.g. the Strasser brothers and even Goebbels at one point. That doesn’t mean that Hitler was a socialist.
oh yeah i forgot nsdap stands for the "not socialist german workers party"
Well he wass a socialist be definition... and unfortunately much more... but still he has a socialist part... but where is the problem? What he did is known and if he was a b or c does not really matter in the big picture
Well Hitler was anti-capitalist and collectivist just like the socialists/communists. But whereas the lefts favor internationalism, Hitler was a nationalist. So, the label "National socialist" is surprisingly accurate.
@radicalesotericcentrist  zitelmann is rather a political activist than a historian. His claims are widely debunked!
As a German living exactly where the consequences of their rise to power will hit first and hardest, it's even wilder.
 @Willingtomb  Show exactly where workers had democratic control in the workplace? Show me where there were strong social safety nets as well as focus on making a fair economy for the working class in these examples? That's what socialism is, and if you so confidently claim they are socialism then you can also trivially prove that is the case right? You can't because it's not true and you are lying through your teeth. Fascism and socialism are two distinct ideologies that are completely incompatible. And just because someone says they are something doesn't make it the case either. Seriously, are you going to be so gullible to 100% believe that anything and everyone someone says is always true no matter what? No, so why are you treating this situation any differently?
@dervideominister  All the power to the government. No property, planned economy, educated young people to be total loyal to the government
@ What you are describing is known as "The Overton Window". Also I think you got right and left mixed up in your almost last sentence re: right-wing
 @endlessstudent3512  I have not called you a hater. I explained that I actually thought you might have been a bot because of your outrageous claims that seemed like something baiting for a response. I feel like you are not really understanding what left-extremist (or anything extremist for that matter) means in reality. We have private companies, a lot of wealthy people with a lot of power, people born with less money have smaller chances of being financially successful. Germany is one of the most successful capitalist countries. We have a relatively robust constitution (compared to the US for example), we have a plurality of parties with the economical right (the CDU/CSU and the neo liberals) being in total stronger in the last 20 years than all of the left combined. Left-extremist parties in Germany are always very small and split into a lot of groups who all never gain power in the government. On the other side right-extremist meaning: populist, extreme nationalism (every foreigner is below Germans) paired with xenophobia, increasing criticism of democratic institutions, has recently become a lot more successful. I am almost certain that these criteria will not satisfy your opinion about (economical) left and right extremism, so what's your perspective? Or are you purely talking about liberal versus conservative values?
Sure it's wild how stating an obvious fact doesn't discredit you...
@dervideominister  Fascist Italy attained the highest rate of state ownership of an economy in the world other than the Soviet Union. Fascism is not National Socialism.  in a totalitarian state, be it Italy, Germany or even the Soviet Union, both the state and private companies are one and the same, facades of the ruling party to administrate the resources of the nation.
Did you eat clown for lunch. If so it was off.
 @jimbeam4736  Same as a socialist. Sweden had a NATIONAL Swedish communist party. They were still communists...
As someone who knows a bit about history it's odd nobody deems it necessary to mention the proximity between Soviet and Third Reich economy policies.
​ @erikjohnson8031  Oh, so a parties politics can be determined solely based on their name? Is that what you actually think? that every party that has socialist in their name is socialist, every party that has democratic in their name is democratic, really? my god, I really worry about how rapidly stupidity seems to spread nowadays
@halfmoon2488 All dictatorships are collectivist. Left and right by themselves are not valid lenses to view a political movement just like north and south are meaningless without west and east.
 @JohannesWagner82  Hitler definitely had many socialist ideas so it's not completely wrong. Also Selensky stopped elections with the war law. So also not completely wrong.
Over here in the states we have trolls like Dinesh D’Souza claim that stuff too.
Race socialists. Not (economic) class Socialists.  But then race is also a class.
Not really. Whome exactly do you think Marx identified as The Capitalists ?  The small hat people.....  Marx also wrote a tract detailing his racism.
can i came to your country? I am an informatic and software developer
 @mychannel1960  what do you think Christian Social Union (CSU) means? Make your guess, then google what politics they actually ascribe to and see if you were able to guess correctly. A parties name tells you nothing about their actual politics, only about how they wanted to be viewed at the time (but "socialist" in 1930s germany also meant something completely different compared to today)
What's next calling Stalin/Pol Pot Communists😅. These right wingers would stoop to any level to blame left wingers, right?😂😂
It is wild and sad, even for many Germans like me! May I please apply for asylum in Sweden?
​ @nexusxmoon Actually socialist/Communist do not discriminate on the basis of ethnicity & region they are on the left side on the political spectrum whereas fassist discriminate on the basis of it. Fassism is far right UltraNationalist authoritarian ideology.
 @nexusxmoon he was not a socialist. If that’s the case why don’t neo nzis promote socialism?
​ @nexusxmoon  no he wasn't, he was a far right nationalist. Can't believe people still don't understand this
How is that crazy to you? SD in Sweden is at 25%
​@venanziadorromatagni1641 let me argue just like you have, he had socialist policies
​@R.EGranthambut she also called hitler a Kommunist. When she gets angry or agitated, she tends to reveal her true beliefs and those are 'weird' at best, but honestly mostly tin-foil-hat worthy.
It was a sort of socialism, of course. Its even in the name of the party 🙄 Calling Hitler a communist though actually IS weird and wrong.
Nazi ideology was in principle unfavourable to the idea of social welfare.[2] Writing in Mein Kampf about his time spent among the poor in Vienna, Hitler expressed indignation against social welfare for helping the degenerate and the feeble.[3] The Nazis believed that the German race had to be strengthened through a process of natural selection, which required weeding out its weakest elements, so they condemned the goals of charity and philanthropy.[3] They opposed the extensive welfare system of the Weimar Republic for being wasteful, bureaucratic, and helping the wrong people, since it distributed welfare benefits indiscriminately without regard for race and often assisted people that the Nazis considered inferior.[3]
believing the Nazis were socialists because they had"socialist" in their party's name is like believing "Daily Telegram" would delivered by telegram.
 @SusCalvin  Nevertheless racism was common among everyone, also leftist parties, also among the oh so liberal USA back then. Thats nothing specific rightwing.
 @nexusxmoon Hitler was not a socialist. Not only were his policies never socialist, he also had all socialist, communist, and social democrats arrested and murdered because he considered them his greatest political enemies.
The fact that you make commentary on history you have no idea about is WILD.  How about you actually study history and start writing notes on Hitler's socialist policies so that you don't forget.
 @Josephinebereau  The thing is, NS wanted equality too in a certain frame. Everyone was able to rise in the nazi state to highest ranks. Farmer sons as well as students. What the NS did is to declassify certain races or ethnicites like Slavs as humans and calling them subhumans. Which means, inside the crazy NS view the "worthy humans" were equal. It's a bit more complex than, only leftwing wants equality and rightwing not.
Yes,  IT IS not something to be proud of. Elon Musk ist strongly supporting European  heads of right wing Parties.
 @johnw574  Not sure to which commenter you respond. In any case, I have studied the history of my country for a long time. And I can assure you, Hitler was not a socialist. For instance, Hitler kept the basic capitalist structures of the economy, had close ties with the old national conservative elites and with big businesses, destroyed trade unions, etc.  However, in the beginning, there was indeed a group within the NSDAP, the so-called "Strasser wing", which actually pursued some anti-capitalist goals, but Hitler stopped that group early on and had its leader killed in 1934.  Again, Hitler was not a socialist. In fact, the socialists, were one of the first people who were imprisoned and killed in 1933 in the concentration camps as Hitler considered them (together with the communists and social democrats) his greatest political enemies.
Hitler was mainly a racist and a nationalist. The socialist part was adopted by him to steal votes from the communist party, which was the biggest threat to the NSDAP at this time. This wasn't his primary ideology, rather it was used for pragmatic reasons. Not allowing personal freedom and organizing society in a socialistic manner also greatly supported his goal to gain ultimate power and to fulfill his plans for war and genocide. However, other protagonists, like for example Goebbels, primarily followed a socialistic ideology and only later became nationalists because of Hitler. So although the NSDAP definitely was a socialist party combining aspects of right- as well as left-extreme ideology, Hitler was not primarily a socialist, this is just wrong.
Yeah its scary how daft the world is nowdays... Feels like logics and facts are worse then swearing in church.
 @hildebrandgotenland4823  The question was whether Hitler was a communist and this question is clearly answered: No, he was not. The NSDAP as a whole was right-wing extremist. And it's not just me saying that, it's the expert consensus.
The amount of stupid people just doubling down proudly on stupid here is really sad and leaves little hope for humanity.
 @JohannesWagner82 he was national socialist which is a form of socialism, it’s like a nationalist socialist hybrid
yeah the man from the national socialist party wasn't actually a socialist, you also believe there are no true Scottsman
He was a socialist,a National Socialist. It's kind of in their name.
As a German, what do you think we're thinking over here. I wonder how this party is even allowed to participate in the vote
His party was literally called the national socialist workers party. Why is this wild? As a swede you should be more concerned with the historical decline in your own country.
Gratulations. Consider yourself to the air filled heads, intentionally not understand the meaning behind that.
​ @nexusxmoon  No, the SA hunted, imprisoned, tortured and killed socialist and communist politicians, so many had to flee from their country, Hitler hated communists and socialists, the only reason the national socialists used the term for themselves was for the group of blue eyed and blonde people, which is a contradiction in itself already
It is not a surprise at all. It is a reaction. We might not like it but just with any problem when you wait long enough there will only be uncomfortable solutions left to pick from.
sorry they were socialists , communist was the wrong part . as they made the NSDAP " national socialistic german workers party ! "
 @egioch  East Germany was called the German Democratic Republic. Like strawberry ice-cream and crab sticks. Don't believe the labels.
​ @nexusxmoon  I don't think people were referring to the word "socialist".
Care more about your women and girls, Swedish guy, and less about some foreign politician's words
 @nexusxmoon  He called himself and his party socialist. This does not mean he actually was according to his party program. If you are a Hyena and call yourself a bunny, this does not mean you are a cute furry socialist.
As a german... he was a n..... socialist, obviously. That is the other kind of socialist, but still a socialist. Now we can argue what left and right is. To claim Socialism itself, no matter which form, is a very left way of ideological thinking, isn`t that WILD in my honest opinion. By the way... A.H. read Karl Marx and was very impressed and implemented big chunks into his own ideology. The question is, what was the worst part of the N.... ideology. The National or the Socialist part? If you look at history... Socialism, red socialism, was unbelievably bad every time it occured, alltogether causing much more deaths as the N.... socialism. So maybe that is the reason some people think that the socialism part of the N... ideology was the worst part, not the Nationalist part.
"We are socialists. We are the enemies of today's capitalist system of exploitation … and we are determined to destroy this system under all conditions?"  - Hitler  Hitler flat out states that his “Welanschauung”, meaning his “world view” is identical to Marxism except that it values the importance of race over class. Where Marxism seeks to eliminate classes and elevate the workers National Socialism seeks to elevate the Aryan race. It’s the same system- central control over an economy- just the goal is differant.
I’m sorry, what did “Nazi” stand for? Furthermore, fascism is not as far from the depths of socialism as you’d think, as Mussolini was a former socialist publisher himself.
 @venanziadorromatagni1641  The problem lies with bad education. Exactly you're a good Example for that.  Socialism is a Ideology and not 1 Political party completely embraces 1 Ideology. Hitler being a socialist for the arian race was part of his ideology. Yet the other parts of their unique idelogy where different. So saying a socialist ist not completely wrong. You could argue Stalin wasn't a communist since he was a dictator too.   Maybe you should stop jumping on things and stop spouting your nonsense.
As a German I can confirm it is not only wild. It is concerning at least.
 @PETRiCH0R030  none of you paid attention in history class and its quite shocking if you are german, we all had it at the 6th grade or so how can you forget it so easily?
he was a socialist, hitler's party was called 'nazionalsozialisten' - they were definitely socialist but also nationalist.
I wonder what the 'socialism' part of "national socialism" means? 🤔
okok, but can you put that knive away, i leave ok
Sickening what's happening here.. whats going on with the german youth and younger adults? So many 18-44 voted for Afd. I have to say sorry to all the boomers I thought would vote for them. At the moment leaving the country feels better than trying to fight them :(
It was called the National Socialist Party of the Workers maybe you can ask a refund for your public school education.
 @JohannesWagner82 putting another word in front of socialist doesn’t change the fact that Hitler was a socialist. Socialism is an economic system and Hitler used that system to fuel his war efforts.
As a pole living in Germany I‘m even more concerned. Even my daughter is a AfD supporter and has no idea how betrayed my feelings are. 😢
The Nazis were literally called National Socialist German Worker‘s Party. You can discuss whether their politics were actually socialist (mostly not) but they literally were socialists.
Hitler was neither a right-wing extremist nor a socialist. Hitler was an authoritarian Dictator. Both sides are trying to frame Hitler as the other side but both are lying. He had qualities from both sides of the ile.   Right wings tend to be more nationalist, but they like a smaller government. Left wing wants a larger government where the government owns and manages everything, which sounds lot more like the Nazi government.   So the argument one side is more opposed to the Nazi ideology does not make sense. And if %20 of the voters vote for someone, other parties ignoring the %20 does not fix the issue.
 @Chrisko1492  Honestly what they are called are not that important. Their actions are more important. But when I consider their actions they do have lot more in common with the communist regimes like the Soviets than they do with far right.
​ @endlessstudent3512  if I call you a tool, you don't just become a hammer. Hitler wasn't a socialist, even though he claimed he was.  George Strasser was a socialist in the NSDAP. He actually hasz socialist policies. That's the first faction Hitler and Goebbels got rid of after the power grab, even before attacking media, other parties or the Jews.  Read up on George Strasser and his supporters. They were why socialist was in the parties name. They already formed that party under that name before Hitler even joined.
​ @lyubovimirovospriyatiye  no, the Nazis weren't about free capitalism either. They were oligarchic, much like today's Russia. It's crowny capitalism
​ @TheBloatLord  have you? Maybe read one about Georg Strasser, an actual socialist in the NSDAP, and what happened to him.   The Nazis economic policies were an oligarchic form of capitalism, much similar to today's Russia. Crowny capitalism at its best. Nothing socialist about that.   The socialist wing was killed off in 1933 ...
​ @GustafHauRuck  national socialism as Georg Strasser envisioned it, certainly. But that guy was killed by Goebbels and Hitler in 1934 for a reason.   Hitler and Goebbels cosied up with the industrial leaders of Germany. In the end the economic system was an oligarchic type of capitalism, much similar to today's Russia. Nothing socialist about that ...
​ @kitataki2296  we do know that. But we don't stop learning about that at the title. We also know who Georg Strasser was and what happened to him.   Hint: he was an actual socialist in the NSDAP. He and his supporters were the first to get eliminated by Hitler, even before attacking the other parties, the media or the Jews. Guess why?
​ @olivemadaule1832  read a book about Georg Strasser. People like him did put the S in the party name. Him and his supporters were the first Hitler eliminated after the grab to power.   So yeah, grab a book and read. Maybe more than just the title 😂
Hitler, Mussolini, Stalin, Mao, Pol Pot, Hugo Chavez, Ceaucescu, Erich Honecker, et. al. were all collectivists (related to or practicing collectivism (= a theory or political system based on the principle that all industries and services should be owned by or for all the people in that country). To lump some of them with libertarians, Thomas Sowell, Milton Friedman, or Javier Milei is ridiculous.
​ @minutemansam1214  it was an oligarchic system, crowny capitalism at its best. Not much different from today's Russia ...
​ @PetrMachacka-sl2ql  if you only have one dimension, it looks weird. But it's a inefficient way of looking at things. Left and right is one dimension, autocratic vs libertarian is another. Communists under Stalin and fascists in Italy, Germany and Spain were all autocratic. But they had very different policies ...
 @endlessstudent3512  And your name is "endlessstudent" and yet you seem to not have studied endlessly :D
 @egioch  just as much as the C in CDU has to do with their politics...
lol, even Goebells said that they were installing the "real socialism". Fascism and Socialism share common values, based on the French Revolution: all for the State (the Comuna), everything in the State, the will of the people is the will of the State (but in truth is the other way)
​ @endlessstudent3512  You have one kind of correct point: north korea and the third reich are somewhat similar in ideology (fascist admiration of their ruler, believing they are superior to others. But calling yourself socialist does not make you a socialist. In the third reich private ownership of companies still existed. Many german businessmen profited largely. Unions were banned. Communists amd socialists were jailed / put into concentration camps. The NSDAP labeled themselves as socialist to get support from the workers, their policies weren't socialist, though.  And the mordern Germany was never far left. Especially not in regard to economic policies. It has always been a somewhat regulated capitalist state. The only really progressive development was in regards to social equality, but not economic.
When you read Mein Kampf, you'll understand why people say he was a socialist. But I don't think you will ever read it... unless you're not intellectually lazy yourself.   So, will you?
Thank you for explaining this to the intellectually lazy. I hope critical thinking and discernment is included in tests and exams for all schools.
So ignorant on political theory. Maybe Sweden should also look into their education system. You have no clue on what socialism is or where in the political spectrum it sits. Hitler was NOT a right winger.
@Jay_in_Japan  when you read mein Kampf you will understand that he was antisocialist. He wrote about the "jew Karl Marx", about "jewish bolshewism", the "damned marxists and social democrats". He called for "Race war instead of class war".
​ @endlessstudent3512  You got the freedom of speak. So this is your opinion. But I' ve been living in Germany for 47 years now. And it's totally wrong. Where did you get this fake from?
​We Germany are allowed to talk about anything. Where did you get your Fake-Knowledge from?
After your edit:  Hitler was an authoritarian who had socialist ideas. He was not conservative at all. He played identity politics to the max. Who does that now?
And saying Nazism is far right makes it true.  Right?  Right?
This depends on how one defines socialism. If you look at socialism in abstract terms you can define it as the idea of bringing some form of social justice. In this case, marxism, communism/collectivism, nazism represent the means to achieve this goal and also make it more specific (or less abstract). In this case, one can could argue that he was a socialist (because of his ideas of what social justice is and how it should be achieved). Speaking outside of abstract terms: No, of course Hitler was not a socialist. Any politician who tells you otherwise aims to manipulate you. Any politician who offers simple solutions to complicated problems also wants to manipulate you. This is a very dangerous path, and you don't want to end up where it leads. Populists don't solve problems; they deceive you to gain or maintain power for as long as they can. Ultimately, this ignorance will trigger a powerful social explosion that will hurt everyone severely. I truly hope we can avoid this outcome.
Like calling the so-called allies, freedom loving democracies. No such thing, never has been, never will be!
and "Scheuermilch" (scouring milk) is actually just milk, drink it! mjam mjam mjam
That's is a nice try to reframe themselves, to normalize and by that make authoritarian, fascistoid policy votable for a wider range of people.
a political and economic theory of social organization which advocates that the means of production, distribution, and exchange should be owned or regulated by the community as a whole. policy or practice based on the political and economic theory of socialism. (in Marxist theory) a transitional social state between the overthrow of capitalism and the realization of Communism
 @spaceowl5957  North Korea calls itself a Demoracy does that make North Korea a Democracy?
You have literally no idea at all what you are talking about lol...too funny.
I wouldn`t use the world "wild". "Delussional" at the very minimum sounds more fitting.
 @endlessstudent3512  No they excluded parts of the population on every even remotly socialist policie they had wich makes them not socalist. And since you brought up North Korea. Do you think its a democracy because it calls itself that. Because thats your level of argumentation here. Also germany had only 4 years of a non conservative goverment. Merkel was not Left. Dude the amount of BS you are telling is rediculus! Stop watching right wing youtube videos. It really semms to hurt your brain.
@StopThatUselessNoise No its not because when you exclude big parts of your population its not socalism. And throwing some people into concentration camps while giving others social benefits is not socialsm.
 @isaguatamelon  And so what is your education? Point us to a book that says hitler is not right-wing.
Yes there are lot of such words: "German democratic republic" (former eastern Germany) -> neither democratic nor a republic! Or "islamic republic of iran" -> islamic but not a republic🤣
 @stuckonautomatic  But what does it mean to be a “nationalist” … And why does it have a negative connotation ?  A nation is a group of people who agree to work together, share recourses, abide to a set of (agreed upon) laws … This “nation” (= collaboration) has to be defined/protected by “borders” … If a nation has no borders, or weak borders, people cannot share resources (or won’t be willing to share resources), there cannot be a welfare state without borders. Without strong borders it will be difficult to enforce the law (since there will be people in your nation that didn’t agree to follow the rules). So someone please explain me why “nationalism” is a bad thing. Also please explain me why trying to enforce borders (or limit access to a nation/social security) makes a party “racist” … As I said without protecting access to the “system” (the nation) … there will be no “collaboration” … and the system will collapse
 @endlessstudent3512 what kind of nonsense are you saying? Past 10 years were left-extremists?? For starters, half of that was ruled by the Union which is a right wing party, even if they call themselves centrist. And the other half was a hodgepodge of 3 different parties with 3 different goals, of which half were covid years that you can’t compare to any other time. And despite the covid time, those 3 parties constantly fighting each other still did a better job for the people than 16 years of right wing ruling before that. Imagine how things could’ve been when an actual left wing party had the majority? Have you looked at places where they are in the majority like Hamburg? People have amazing quality of life. So please shut up with your useless and baseless yapping
But Hitler was a National Socialist (Nazi), and the Nazis were a very extreme left-wing party with all sorts of social programs, like healthcare, social housing, financial assistance for families, and more.
 @KAD010900  The big problem with calling these policies socialist is that they excluded a legal part of the population. What makes them not socialist.
 @GustafHauRuck  You cant exclude parts of your population in socialism. So no they are not socialsts.
 @endlessstudent3512 in welcher welt war deutschland die letzten 10 jahre lonks extrem?😂. Deutschland wurde, asugenommen der Ampel regierung, von der CDU regiert, eine Partei die politisch Mitte-Rechts(mittlerweile sogar nur rechts), zuzuordnen ist
 @spaceowl5957  Not every word and phrase that contains 'social' and 'socialism' is the same: it's like psychology, psychiatry and psychics contain the element 'psych-' but they are not the same.
Kind of the same way "Fascism" has become a buzzword for "How dare you disagree" in the U.S.
 @PETRiCH0R030  They were literally Nationalist and Socialist simultaneously. Like Stalin disagreeing with Trotsky on permenant revolution vs his own idea of "national" Communist state bringing communism to the world outward through military conquest.
 @egioch  Nope. Or does the phrase 'family tree' evoke a picture of an actual plant in your mind, too?
You just wrote an essay to explain that socialism and national socialism arent the same kind of socialism.
 @xyzmti  So, you think, if you order a 'red Russian' at the bar, they will bring you a person from Russia painted in red?
 @siemensohm  What is your source? Do you have a reference for this bs?
 @danielbuckler7906  And where does it state to exclude a part of your population from that system and throw them into concentration camps? As said before if you exclude parts of the population its no longer socialism by definition.
 @TheBloatLord  So which book have you opened, can you give us the reference? 'National socialist' is not a socialist in its proper sense - if you're deriving your knowledge from that, there is no need to open a book, it's just a word trick.
Your edit is completely off base. Socialism has to do with government spending and government programs. “Equality” is a cultural concept, totally separate from the definition of socialism. Just because Hitler doesn’t fit your definition of a socialist does not mean he is not one
 @kitataki2296  I actually agree with you, so no need to convince me. Maybe you responded to the wrong person?
This is basically a ploy from austrian economist Hayek to differentiate his far right individualist economical (neoliberal) policies from the Nazi "collectivist social contract" (which was not socialist!). This blatant lie has circulated in neoclassical economist circles for quite a while now. And even if Hitler and Stalin were two fearthers of a bird as far as authoriarianism goes, Nazis were never socialist. Today most Socialists follow democratic socialism and that is just as far removed from nationalsocialist or fascist policies that you can be, making Weidels and Musks claims utterly ridiculous.
 @nexusxmoon  Hitler is a dirty word. And he was never socialist. He only gained power because the oligarchs in Germany at the time put their support behind him (sound familiar?) hoping he could curb socialist and communist parties (which he did throw into concentration camps not far after). The Nazis never implemented any socialist policies.
 @sheduria  Of course I have a reference. But search your BS yourself or learn to communicate properly.
 @siemensohm  I was referring to this as BS: "Sounds like your education system is bad, too. Of course he was a Socialist, his political career even started with the communist workers and soldiers council in Munich in 1919, which declared a communist dictatorship.", not to your person, I don't even know you. It's just that misrepresenting historical facts is BS and it should be called so. So where is the source? Since I am really searching and not finding any.
So 11k people didn't pay attention in history. We have footage of him speaking on several dozen times. He a socialite not far right.
 @ahleenah  No it was not right wing. CDU was Angela Merkel all these years, who was in heart only leftist. She would have much better fit into "Linke" or maybe "SPD", but not CDU. She was an excellent strategist and she suppressed all right wing initiatives in her party, leaving a vacuum of left people. CDU ist still today searching for their own brand of "conservative", because those tryign to change direction have to fight Merkels people who are still in high positions in the CDU. A CDU as it was before Merkel, a conservative -mid-right party, would have never ever agreed to unlimited migration. Merkel was very clever. She talked conservative, but whenever a majr decision was needed...she decided left. the CDU now has the problem, that under Merkel they drifted too far to the left...but there are already other parties that have the space. No CDU has a problem with finding an identity. Which is difficult, because under Merkel and also under Merz the last 3 years, they have distanced themselfs from anything right-wing...until the last 2 month maybe, where a sudden "change of direction" took place. Maybe they started to realise, that their original place in politics was now ocupied by AfD. so, yes. Also you argument with left towns is nonsense. It is the other way around. Towns that are wealthy and have good level of lifestyle tend to vote mor for the left, whereas areas with poorer people and rural areas tend to vote right. You can see the same in US. The richer states (coastline) mostly are left, while the whole states on the middle part are deeply rightwing. Exception is Berlin by the way. They have a lot of hippies and lgbtq, who vote left despite being poor.
​@GojosMiddleFinger National socialism is not the same as socialism. Just like 'crying over spilled milk' doesn't necessarily mean you are literally standing and crying over spilled milk. Read the update to the comment another time, you might learn new things.
"Die Front gegen den Kapitalismus ist das Gebot der Stunde." Hitler... he was fighting the "western" kapitalsm.
 @XRASER9000  Or Goebbels in his diary. Don't know the date, I would need to look it up: "On Saturday, I spoke as a discussion speaker at the Communists'. I was received with shouts of 'Shame!' and 'Exploiter!' but dismissed with applause and bravos. I find these people very likable. Our most fanatical supporters are recruited from their ranks."
Bro my thanks. Its brings tears to my eyes to hear that there are still people like you. Sadly no Joke
 @PETRiCH0R030  judging by your bad spelling I think you fit right in as a "socialist"
 @PETRiCH0R030  Except the word socialist is not just another word for totalitarian.
 @spaceowl5957 he called himself socialist cuz all the workers back then where socialists. u have no idea about the historic context. if you look at their economic policies it has nothing to do with socialism.
He was a national socialist (not international) -Nationalsozialisten. The N for national, the S for socialist.
What else would you expect on an american news media channel...
You're asking WAY TOO MUCH of the average American (60% or more) to figure out how words actually 'work'. Gotta use baby steps for them.
the political graph is not 1 dimensional as its always being sold, and unfortunately you fell for that as well. The political graph is 2 dimensional, meaning you have left and right , but also authoritarianism and liberalism thats the second dimension. The first dimension tells about the orientation of the states economics and the second dimension talks about the social orientation. Now what you are always are doing is mistakenly arguing about whether the Nazi Regime or also other dictactorian systems if you will, were/are left or right!  But thats actually not even the point!  Its the question whether it is was authoritarianism or liberalism. And the answer to this is obvious, all dictatorship systems are extreme authoritarian, and THAT is in fact, what makes them so dangerous, not if they are left or right oriented !!  So you are in fact arguing about a totally wrong thing, and you are overlooking the point that it was never really about left or right! Both can be good, and both can be bad, The communists were left for example a extreme left authoritarian political system.  Hitler was using elements from both left and right to gain power ,  but it is the second dimension added to it, which makes all dictatorship systems an extreme authoritarian political orientation, which results in the points of question : negative equality, restriction of freedom of speech, racism, establishing mass influencing propaganda media and other anti-human/ anti -freedom elements. So please guys, open your eyes for those elements, become sensitive to those elements which are a result of an ever extreme authoritarian system, which does lead ultimately to what you are fearing the most. And btw im a german who is awake, and not falling for the trap of arguing about left and right! have a nice day
 @JohannesWagner82  Giovanni Gentile literally said fascism was the most workable form of socialism and perfected democracy
 @xmartinx357  Yes it is a democracy because the government has absolute power and the government of the Worker's Party represents the people. It is a people's power
Okay, he was a socialist, he advocated for central planning, socialist institutions - such as free health care and education, etc. That doesn't mean his intention or goals were the same as other traditional socialists (Marxists-Leninist) or social democrats, Neo-marxists, etc - the end results are virtually the same. Socialists and Fascists have way more in common than Liberals, the sooner people understand that, the sooner we can move away from the past
Are there any successful socialist countries? I mean real socialism, not a capitalist country with generous welfare benefits.
While i don't disagree, when you know how words work & include their policies the past decades, you also know that everything that calls themselves democratic actually hate democracy, free speech or well informed citizens.
"The society that puts 'equality' over 'freedom' will end up with none" -- Milton Friedman.
That's probably the most precise explanation of German nazi ideology I have ever read as a comment. Thx so much! As a German, you're sometimes lost for words how some of our citizens can twist our history so dangerously...
I dont think you know what socialism means. Doesn't matter if Nazism was socialist for the benefit of the people or the benefit of the state. It was socialist.  Public ownership (aka government controlled production) It definitely wasn't libertarian/capitalist.
 @endlessstudent3512 so if I call myself a blueberry does that make me a blueberry? And they definitely didn’t stand for socialist structures
 @cinemasurge1851  Just read the books about the topic. If it was so easy, there would be no literature about the similarities.
 @ericj6559  define "successful", conquering and controlling a group of people through force is considered successful by many people who put collective goals over individuals
 @mishakafaka6180  I would define that as the general population being happy or content. I don't think that would apply to the old USSR, NK or Cuba to name a few.
Humans are not equal, it's a fact. equal rights come with equal duty
Hitler was a socialist. All of his policies were left leaning. 5 year plan, economy controlled by the government, MeFo, Euality of classes. Multiple members said that they were left and hated the right, the party consisted of left leaning extremists and he even wrote a book about how he would bring socialism to the world. He even called it "German Socialism". And the only resistance came from the right (Von Papen for example) while the left cooperated. Today multiple Historians and political scientists agree that he was indeed a socialist. Btw German here.
He was a socialist.   You can’t say he did the things of socialism but the result wasn’t what socialism is.  I can call myself a bird but I can’t fly.  There are no examples in the world of socialism working without a form of capitalism involved, including the nord countries.
He was neither socialist nor was he capitalist and he wasn't conservative. He was a nazist, which is bit like a fascist, but with a racial aspect added
​ @Josephinebereau  I quess you can call him far right, but far-right got as much in common with conservatism as they got in common with marxism, barely any
@ except he’s wrong saying Hitler wasn’t a socialist. He realizes communists also banned trade unions right?
@ yes it was democratic. They had elections. The ruling party represented the German workers. So it was the people’s power. Democracy
Just because you're uneducated doesn't mean the rest of us are
Sooo, we gonna ignore that all you told about why Hitler went socialist (while you rigorously explained how he wasn't a socialist) is EXACTLY what the specialist DO RIGHT NOW !?
​ @PersonaPariah Most of this only became a topic after the wife of the first Ukrainian president went to the USA, CIA and then the anti-russian propaganda in Ukraine started from that point.  Also, while most of those things did happen, they happened in all of the Soviet Union, and Ukraine was made to believe that it was somehow against them.
Your comparision with North Korea is missleading. If every democracy was a dictatorship like North Korea, you would question the definition of democracy, the same should be done for socialism. In socialism, there is no equality, the political class was always privileged, beside that, socialism means poverty and injustice. Basing the definition of socialism on the promises of socialists is false. In practice, socialism means dictatorship, so claiming that national socialism is unrelated to socialism is deceiving. Far left extremists promote socialism, despite the fact that socialism failed dozens of times, so they frame failed socialist ideologies like national socialism or stalinism as fascism.
Tik history does a very deep dive on national socialism.  You should educate yourself.  Nazis are socialists
​@R.EGranthamone is class one is race.  They are bothnsocalist tho
he was a socialist as he very much interfered in ownership, founded a healthcare for "his people" as well as punished crimes against the order of public institutions on a certain level. seems pretty similar to what's going on in china, just a tad bit less extreme
Yeah, that s for simpletons. If you look into historical documents you might understand - it s of course eaier to stay ignorant.
Hitler was a socialist. Not by the Marxist definition, of course, but still a socialist.
 @Telendil  And it calls itself a republic which it isn't that either!
 @nexusxmoon  Socialism is not a dirty word but Hitler most definitely wasn’t a socialist!
Thank you for your comment. It is so hard to see the stupidity of these people.
Stalin did the opposite of your defined socialism,...you telling me he wasn't socialist?
The creator of facism was a Neo-Marxcist, Mussolini was a member of the socialist party in Italy.The thing with socialism/comunist is the union of the state and industry(corporations) same with facism just more extreme(sometimes), nazism is the same of facism just eith the racial and ethecit problems.Do study before coment stupid things
You are wrong, the most fundamental difference between the left and the right is their attitude to private business! Socialism says that all plants, all resources must belong to the society, and the right of private ownership of the means of production is prohibited. The right politics are ordinary  servants of capital and private business
 @hildebrandgotenland4823  what kind of the leftwing ideas nationalsocialism had? Socialism means creation of classless society (maybe you don't know but the society consists of two classes: proletarian and bourgeoisie, in modern way -  worker and businessman). As I know a private business were springing up in Nazi Germany ( Krupp, Porsche and etc)
 @МаратЗаляев-м1ы  it isnt the division between right and left is how the division of the classes are made. For example a far right converment is a absolute monarquia and a far left us a comunism dictaturship
​@nexusxmoon  So I may call myself the president, and that automatically makes me one? Interesting.
He was a national socialist. Hitler was left wing, sorry to burst your bubble😂
Sorry but thats not what socialism is...socialism is when the state controls the Economy and the Nazis clearly were socialist...there is a great Video on YouTube about it where a guy explains it in detail for more than 4h...No lefty could refute his claims because its just a fact Nazis were socialist but not marxist...its not a right wing guy who did that and he is willing to change his mind when you can make a convincing argument but you cant as you already proved in your comment by not even understanding what socialism is...i guess its too much asked to Google it...
After reading 300 comments you still don't get that socialism does not prevent fascism or genocide. So yes, Hitler was a Fascist, and a Socialist, although certainly not a communist.
 @endlessstudent3512 OMG. Talk about twisting words! That was a masterclass in rightwing garbage.
 @Spritz86 You did your homework? And you think the Nazis were socialist?? And which school taught you that?!
 @GustafHauRuck No, they are not. Please read a history book. Don't just comment because you can comment.
 @deagle2yadome696 So what? Anyone can call themselves an angel, or superhero--but are they?
 @Pietje_Piraat  He commandeered lots of words that don't mean what he intended. Hitler was a fascist--not a socialist.
 @olivemadaule1832 NO! They used that word to co-opt its meaning. But the Nazis WERE NOT socialists.
 @HasiHasiHasiHasiHasi Anyone can use any word to lie about their intentions. Can't YOU read?
 @Cal-Valhalla   Why? Because he told you to believe him? People use lots of words incorrectly--on purpose. Hitler saw the value in using a word that didn't NOT describe his ambitions, but fooled plenty of people--like yourself. If I call myself a sea turtle, you'll swallow that, too?
 @tudormiller887 OMG. Why would you comment if you don't know what you're talking about?
 @Ruktiet    Dictatorships are the premier manifestation of far-Right politics! The Right defines authoritarian models!
 @jb8408   He could have put "cherry-cola" in the name--do you believe everything a politician says? Let me guess--you voted for Trump?
He took over the Workers' Party as a Socialist, replacing the Strasserite brothers, who were also Socialists.
 @endlessstudent3512  As a german who has lived in Germany for the last 10 years, I can tell you, Germany was very far away from bein socialis or extreme leftist, there is a far-right comeback as you can see just by the AfD´s vote share. Hitler was not a socialist, he was a murderer of the very socialists you talk about. Americans never seem to understand that social-democracy, as appeared in Europe over the last century, is not equal to socialism. Nationalisms was not part of Nazi-identity, it was indeed Nazi-identity. Please go back to your history books and study it all over again.
​@JohannesWagner82 so socialism is and economic theory where the ideal version of it has almost never been fully realized just like communism, it advocates for egalitarian ideals. But is often used as a vehicle but never used by itself. Fascism is authoritarian in nature and mixed with nationalism usually. They both have something in common though and that is the focus of the needs of the many over the needs of the few.   The reason they are so similar is because people are avaricious by nature and unable to fully govern themselves without oversight.   This oversight, is the government and where socialism can escalate to fascism. Fascism is basically socialism cranked to 11 mixed with nationalism.
Pls do your research before posting so much disinformation. The National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP), commonly known as the Nazi Party, did incorporate elements from both right-wing and left-wing ideologies, but in ways that were unique and often contradictory. Example for left-wing elements:  Economic interventionism, Anti-capitalist rhetoric and Social programs for example...
Bro that was satisfying to read. Love and peace brother 🇸🇪🫂🇪🇺🇩🇪
​ @kroko9691  your doughter just wants to feel safe in germany, you concerned about your feelings you are unicorn not a dad.
Wow, your Swedish school system has really failed you. Hitler was of the extrem left, even his propaganda minister spoke out against the hated right wing bourgeoisie. The only difference was that the Communists (Rotbund) were loyal to Moscow - something Hitler couldn't tolerate.  There was no ideological rift between the Nazis and the Communists, both believed in the state and a supreme leader and that any opposition need to forcefully reeducated or crushed with well known outcome. So go back educate yourself before typing more nonsense.
NSDAP is now SPD and i never voted for SPD and never will!!!
I as a german will never vote for the SPD who was back then NSDAP but martin you’re comment is absolutely brainless!
Marton you know absolutely nothing about us germans and HOW hard we are working everyday!
Martin You’re comment is the most meaningless and makes absolutely no sense at all!
as a german i can tell you that i ask this myself too. we are so cooked
 @endlessstudent3512  You do not understand the tenets, roots, or core belief structures of socialism if you think authoritarianism, totalitarianism, fascism, or crackdowns on human and worker rights has anything to do with socialism
If socialism is such a great system, could you name one country where it actually worked?
Well it depends on which of the different definition of socialism is being referred to. A positive definition would be a system which is concerned about justice, fairness and solidarity. I would call that a social democracy. But socialism in Germany is better know as a totalitarian regime, which controls (not owns, that would be communism) the production centers and most of the social life as well. Opponents are often persecuted and killed. Typically a certain group of people formerly said to be victims of higher powers e.g. working class vs. industrialist/entrepeneurs. The Nazis (National socialist) focused on the german lower and middle class as being the alleged victims of foreign and jewish powers. So the way they operated the state was a socialist regime according to that definition but instead of favoring a specific social class they favored a nationality. So in the end it depends on the definition of socialism that is being used. From my point of view socialism and communism are words that stand for totalitarian regimes with 100 Millionen of victims worldwide. So calling Hitler a socialist certainly is not a praise.
You have some points,  but that is not the full image. NSDAP clearly has socialist tendencies even as it was not about equality of it's people in all regards. The inequality you refer to are mostly those to OTHER people, not those of their own country. But yes, if course they also were "right", but again left and right are not absolute in any regard but are applied and used for several aspects and axes of values and goals! Saying they were right is as wrong as saying there were left. They were both.
believe me, the ppl who did not vote for the afd think it's wild too. the votes came almost exclusively from the former gdr...
 @Chichachillie  please inform yourself before posting such things. This is very arrogant to point fingers at some people without facts and the same mistake which led us in a lot of problems. From over 10 mio AFD voters only 36% has been from former GDR! It's maybe only your impression because only 20% of germans voters are living there.  Keep you f facts straight. There is  work to do everythere in germany. Not only in former GDR states. Even without former GDR states AFD would have far more, than 10%... Think about this.
 @kitataki2296  my 2 cents. nation is not a group of people who agreed to s.th, but a social organization of people with common properties like history, region, believes .... bound by polical constitutions. It is quite modern and artificial. Before it was natural and flexible. It is simply dangerous because the identification with the own nation (maybe without contributing) can lead do hate to another nation (the same happened with neighbor village, neighbor cities... before mass transportration). And it can lead to not accepting new people from other "nations" in the own. Like it was in villages longer time ago.
​ @jamjinn786 In Mein Kampf Hitler calls the left the other side and his opponents. Hitler viewed himself as right wing and opposed to the left. He also openly said they were committed to taking away socialism from the socialists. Now calling Hitler a socialist in an academic setting, while explaining what "socialism" meant to Hitler (mostly nationalism) is ok. Calling him a leftists, while he himself wrote he was fighting against the left, is deceitful revisionism.
lol another one that thinks that "socialism wishes to promote equality". equality in misery? keep that to yourself
1. Nazi=National Socialist German Workers' Party. AH added the "Nationalist" part after he took over the party, it was always a socialist party. 2. Hitler didn't believe in anything but Hilter, he was neither socialist nor capitalist or anything else other than a demagogue with a god complex. 3. The party had a 25-point plan that included many socialist positions, e.g We think that the government's first job is to make sure every citizen has a job and enough to eat; Every citizen should have a job. Their work should not be selfish, but help everyone; Big industrial companies should share their profits with the workers; We want all very big corporations to be owned by the government; The abolition of incomes unearned by work. The breaking of the slavery of interest etc...For a fact, YOU don't know how words work and YOU don't do your own research. That's why you read the NYT. But your smooth, koolaid soaked brain can't comprehend any of this so you will continue to believe the lies.
As a German, thank you for that! So many people are misguided :-/
 @Spritz86  Finally a useful comment here. Thank you for that. Indeed, the nazis introduced social reforms in a time when that was not obvious at all for an industrialized nation. What many now get confused is the sentiment of how "bad" that nazism must have been in general, ergo, nothing good must have come from it, ergo, they could not have been "real" socialists, as "everyone" knows that socialism is a friendly and kind ideology. It's historical phallacy all over the place. We tend to judge past eras from our perspective, instead of the actual times when it all happened.
This has gotta be the best edit I’ve ever seen added to a comment - thank you!
Yes, he was arguably a socialist, not just in name. The NSDAP had countless of socialist policies. What's actually intellectually lazy is the pearl-clutching every time a bad person gets called a socialist.
@EdmondDantèsDE  "He wasnt a bad person , he built the Autobahn, don't you ever forget that. He was a good left person" 🤓🤓🤓 Youre the kinda "Born to say Heil Hitler, forced to say Guten Morgen " kind of person
 @EdmondDantèsDE  Yes, it's the knee-jerk response to any association attempt of nazism to socialism, as socialism is supposedly harmless, whereas nazism, yes, well, who wants to be associated with that?
 @kickerich9402  Wtf are you even talking about? What does being a socialist have to do with being a good person?
 @Guido_XL  absolutely! People really need to stop with their anachronisms! Socialism has historically been multi-shape (USSR, Swedish socialdemocracy, French socialism etc), and nazism WAS one socialism. That people like it or not.
I love your edit! Very well argumented, additionally they called themselves national socialist to gain tracktion and not seem "so dangerous"
 @Josephinebereau  You very cleary have no clue about the definition of the word Socialist. Even a far right extremist can be a socialist. Extreme left can be socialist. Please read up again what socialism means.
such a Swedish edit... flaky argumentation full of anachronisms. Think of the USSR which forbade workers unions...
Yes, It's really not that simply. Ofc, the Nazis pursued socialistic politics. In some stances they even demanded more for the labour force than the SPD at the time. But they've been pretty confusing. I mean Hitler had no proper education. He was a pure opportunist. So he even privatized factories at the time which was pretty unsusual for that time. But also founded some monopolists like 'Volkswagen' or 'Deutsche Reichsbahn'. At the end Nazis have been a totalitarian dictatorship. But I see a lot of socialistic politics there. Especially, before 1933 when Hitler became a dictator.
 @nexusxmoon  No, socialism and fascism are fundamentally incompatible because they are completely opposing ideologies  Socialism aims for social equality, collective control over production, and a fair distribution of resources . Fascism is based on authority, nationalism, hierarchy, and the suppression of minorities and opposition groups.  Fascists only care about themselves or the group they belong to usually the rich and powerful which often go hand in hand. Their wealth and power (has to) grow through exploitation and suffering of others. They have no "socialist" interest in improving life for “the common people”. To them, workers are just cheap and replaceable. The real divide isn’t between left and right, but between those at the top and those at the bottom.   In practice, some regimes have combined socialist rhetoric with fascist methods, using state control alongside oppression. But that doesn’t mean socialism and fascism truly coexist, socialist language is often just used to justify an authoritarian rule.
that reminds me of a guy who told me he is right and the word "right" in politics come from the term "to be right as in to be correct" ... yeah i didnt know how to respond calm to that sentence/mind
insane how many don‘t get the point of this post… seems idiocracy is inevitable-your Linda McMahon will sure help pave the way 🖖
Yes, and he sees socialism as bad and therefore hitler as bad.
Exactly let’s look into the definitions first. Socialism is an ideology.Capitalism is an economic system. Both can coexist without any problems like your homecontry had been proving in the past and like Germany had demonstrated  with its social system built in the years as it had been ruled by socialists. It’s always about the interpretation of equality and freedom Even North Korea as a state was initially meant as a free country where Koreans would be finally independent and equal after decades of suppression and colonialism. And it made sense back then before NordKorea became what it is right now. But if we speak about democracy or socialism there are different concepts of what the equality should be based on and which majority group should be the most important within the system. For some it’s a working class,for modern democracies that should be everyone of us regardless of the gender,race or political views. But if you consider modern Israel a democracy (as a National State since 2019) it should be possible to define  Hitlers Deutschland a socialism
Comments are wild here. Guys, you should pay attention during history class or read a book about it. Hitler was NOT a socialist, omfg.
​ @endlessstudent3512  "germany has been left extremist foe the past 10yrs"  never thought id read so much bs LMAO
Socialism isn’t only to promote economy but also to promote war for the nation, hence why there’s the term nationalism in it. Also, North Korea is completely different from Nazi Germany, while as autocratic as them they’re different with Nazi Germany being the outcome of the global war, ww1, and North Korea being the outcome of the global war, Cold War.  Quick reminder though just because I’m educating on Nazism doesn’t mean I’m a Nazi. That’s called censoring history and is something many socialistic including Hitler have done as well as North Korea if I had to pick something they had in common lol.
On the contrary, it's WILD how all of a sudden "self identification" doesn't matter. If the Nazis called themselves "socialists" then they were. A socialist is everybody who identifies as such.
He was a socialist tho and also acted like that for example the natianalization of the companies
 @hildebrandgotenland4823 Die Nazis wurde massive von Großindustriellen und dem Adel unterstützt. Zu sagen, dass es eine Arbeiterpartei gewesen wäre ist falsch.
⁠ @nexusxmoon  The Nazis called themselves “National Socialists.” But they also referred to themselves as representatives of an “Aryan master race”—and today, people generally don’t take them at their word on that either. Taking the Nazis’ self-designations at face value means either falling for their propaganda or knowingly continuing it. Anyone who seriously considers “National Socialism” to be socialism is mocking the communists and socialists who fought in the resistance or fell victim to the concentration camps. And anyone who tries to portray Hitler as a leftist is engaging in nothing less than historical revisionism.
National socialism is socialistic. It’s a combination. It was its own set of ideology and totalitarianism. Sorry to break it to you but it was socialist in many ways. Not completely socialist ideologically speaking but like I said, socialistic.
Som tysk med svensk mama kan jag inte förklara varför jag bor kvar här hoppas att jag kan studera i Sverige.
Crazy that a guy from Sweden has more knowledge about the NSD*P and German history than a lot of Germans these days! Especially looking at you, Alice Weidel!
Democracy began as an elitist and exclusive system. Only citizens were able to vote and were  involved in the politics.Women,handymen and slaves were excluded. Still it’s been called democracy. State of Israel is considered a democracy being a National State since 2019 officially-which made it ironically to the only one  state in existence right now and the second one in human history. To my knowledge there is no other state  considering nationality a juridically or systemically relevant factor
Your little edit was cute. Yes, Hitler was socialist. He enacted socialist programs for the German citizens.
I know it's probably meaningless... but I share your confusion with so much pain ...  Love your short but perfect summary on left vs right.  Greetings from Germany
Yes, Hitler was a National Socialist. He led the Nazi Party, which believed in strong nationalism (pride in the country), extreme control by the government, and racist ideas, especially against Jewish people. They wanted a powerful, authoritarian leader and rejected ideas like democracy and communism. Hitler and the Nazi Party used the word "socialist" in their name, but their version of socialism was very different from traditional socialism. In classic socialism, the focus is on equality and workers controlling the means of production. The Nazis, however, didn't support those ideas. Instead, they focused on the idea of a strong, centralized state, but with private businesses still in control, as long as they supported the regime.  The term "socialist" in Nazi ideology was mostly used for propaganda purposes to appeal to working-class people. It was meant to create a sense of unity and national pride, but it wasn't about true socialism as we understand it today.
You do get something wrong. Yes words have meanings. And a swede telling germans in english what their german words mean is a little bit hilarious. Hitler WAS a national-socialist. Yes these words have meaning. No they don't mean he wasn't a crazy dictator involved and leading the killing of millions. But just getting angry because you get some words into the wrong pipe is really just a you-problem so you should calm down...
yes, that's right, Hiitler was a leftist. And no, that's not because of the party's name, socialist, that's history. And as a Swede, I would keep my mouth shut. You couldn't successfully defend yourself against the Nazis back then either.
He viewed himself and his 'movement' as socialist. Typical "not true socialism" cope of modern socialists... Grow up!
Thanks for pointing this out!  When I was visiting the US, coming from Germany, in 2009, an old lady told me she didn't trust Obama, because he was a socialist just like Hitler. I briefly tried to explain to her that she got that mixed up - but gave up quickly, thinking she was a bit nuts... I am shocked that this has become a quite common belief.
( as a German completely agree with you! It's so shocking what goes on in our country. Never again is now. These people must never come to power
 @endlessstudent3512 Germany was left-extremist ? In what germany did you live? xD We barely have any left politics especially since the big parties are trying to copy AFDs talking point. If we would  would have been left-extremist for 10 years there would be way more financial equality, no appartemen crisis and probably an unconditional basic income.
@Abram_Israel_4235 more have left than entered sweden since 2023 so you're wrong
He was a socialist and implemented work programs, welfare, and healthcare. The outcome matters NOT INTENT.
Amazingly argued. However, you can explain it as well as humanly possible, some people will still remain ignorant and delusional and keep to their own flawed and degraded ideas. Hopefully, some have understood something out of your comment
the stupid idiots who are telling you Hitler was a socialist are the 20 percent
 @PETRiCH0R030  Weren't, each and every scholar of national socialism will tell you that.
 @pinktfatrabbit  "you are not allowed to talk about it in Germany,"  Utter BS
the expression is correct, but is a misunderstanding by you, socialism refers for hitler to the preussian socialism amd in this way he was a socialist. preussian socialism is term which describes a system where everyone lives for the state, better call it the tzar, a system where all people give everything they have to the great idea ( the tzar). This concept differs from the used term socialsim that the people do not serve the people, they serve the tzar (or the state represented by a tzar)
 @ralfjanser4733  I never heard of that, and if this definition of socialism ever existed, it certainly is no longer used today.
 @ralfjanser4733  Göbbels said once in the public, that nationalsocialism is very close to communism. Dann gab es eine Saalschlacht.
If you define socialism as state control of the economy then the national socialists were pretty socialist. Of course most don't believe that to be the definition of socialism (personally I prefer the Marxist definition of it) but it's not completely insane to say it
Greetings from Germany - you´re absolutely right! I´m very concernd about all of that 😞
Nationalist, exclusionist, and far, far right: The most extreme Israeli government in the nation’s history is really disturbing  but hey nobody talks about that
Dont go me on the nerves! With me is not good cherry eating
You don't hit me over the ear. i swear you that 😂
Correction:  They are not married.  Weidel pay taxes in Germany. Her life partner in Switzerland.
It's the perfect cover isn't it..."I can't be racist...look at my girlfriend"
 @Michael_from_EU_Germany  If you literally google "Where does Alice Weidel live" (In german), it literally says Switzerland.
Her official adress is in Überlingen at the Lake of Constance. But she is rarely to never seen by her neighbours.  So, in her official story she lives in Germany. But as we all Germans know, the AfD and the truths they tell do not go hand in hand with each other
cause homosexuals can't be Nazis?  https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ernst_R%C3%B6hm  better teach yourself in history
The "far-rights" has not moved right, the others have moved far left.
She does. What a weird thing to lie about too when she so happily embraces fascism and denies historical facts.
 @alexblainelayter7703  I never understood why you think someone who wants less state-intervention is a fascist. That's like a vegan meat-eater.
 @harryhundertmarkhl  she does, or is Switzerland a tax free country? She pays for food, public transportat you name it.. that’s tax money
 @harryhundertmarkhl  Yes, she does. Swiss officials already confirmed it in 2017, and now it got out their estate is being jointly owned -> she has to pay taxes
And according to the video Hitler was a Capitalist Lover of free free market 😅
@jusebacho  why not? Nazis were homosexuals as well. my gosh not every Nazi is white arian. you also should learn about history.
The only stupid thing is that they are not far right but right. Just because they have far right voters doesn't mean the party is far right. Otherwise you would have to call the Left far left too!
 @pinktfatrabbit  The party has been classified as right-wing extremist by the Constitutional Court in three federal states and is under surveillance by the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution nationwide. And this is not determined by their voters, but by their officials.
Her ex girlfriend was a Chinese woman living in Shanghai. Alice worked in China for over 8 years and speak fluent mandarin.
Is everything that isn't the status quo, or even a different party far-right nowadays? I don't understand, I see this term thrown around a lot these days.
 @chrismath149  The far-right cannot move further right—they are at the abyss! And the other ones haven't moved left; they have progressed.
 @dervideominister  How is going left progress? A collectivist and authoritarian philosophy that impoverishes people? Progress? Sure...please study history.  They "far-right" holds mostly positions that were in the center in the 2000s and the 90s. But you are more adapt at throwing labels at groups instead of making arguments.
​ @chrismath149  Who says that liberals are fascists? Have you ever heard someone calling out the FDP in Germany? However, the AfD is not libertarian but rather authoritarian. ('The Germans' longing for a historical figure (...) is deeply rooted in our soul' (Höcke, AfD)). The AfD is not conservative; it is reactionary.
@ Power corrupts. I will glady admit that the proximity some right-wing parties have to Russia, for example, worry me but a classification by a vehicle influenced by an established sphere of parties is not something that I will use as a basis for criticism against anyone. If I criticize a party it's due to something the members of the party themselves say that I disagree with, not due to a government appartus calling it out. And there are plenty of things that I find worthy of criticism when it comes to the AfD. But not their migration policy.
 @Lithiumize  "Is everything that isn't the status quo" - no, parties who want to move forward or progress are not far-rights. But reactionary and  authoritarian parties very often end in fascist ideas?! Otherwise, they wouldn't engage in historical revisionism.
 @dervideominister  The AfD program has several bullets points on their own website that will limit power of the state ( less subsidies and bureaucarcy for example ).  That makes the AfD not fascist since historically, the aim of fascism was to establish control over society by organizing it hierarchically. Both direct democracy and less bureacracy, etc are counterintuitive to fascist goals.
It just goes to show they will say and do anything for the sake of getting power
@JB-ti7bl  Exactly. She calls "herself" that, but the true power within the AfD has a slightly different opinion.
@ Sorry, how did you come to the mistaken idea that fascism is an economic movement? It is primarily a political ideology that places more importance on cultural and social issues than on the economy. State interventions were therefore limited to national programs that served political goals. Nevertheless, the Nazis placed great value on private property and free competition, in which the superior people will succeed.
@ They also caused a lot of bloodshed. This is another point on why I'm either uncertain or skeptical of certain statements, because Nazi is another word that gets thrown around a lot to define things it doesn't define.
Alice Weidel, the AfD’s candidate for chancellor, is registered in Germany and pays her taxes in Germany.
It’s not possible for her to live in Germany and live a normal life. Because of the all so tolerant left.
@JeDxDeVu  rright... in the country of love parrades and octoberfests she can not live a normal life 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣 gtfo
@germanCrowbar  it is true, you can check she is 100% open about it
​ @chrismath149  less state Intervention in the economy, more state Intervention socially.
 @harryhundertmarkhl But in the swiss news I read that she does pay Taxes in Switzerland.
wait what there is a srilankan involved wow that's not something I thought to see when I checked for news in Germany from srilanka 🤣
It's a tactic to make the impression that the AfD isn't homophobic, misogynic etc.
 @chrismath149 Progress away from autoritarian to egalitiariayan. Sorry had to say that you Are to close minded to See the quiet Part 😊
The AxD ist a pure Comedy Show! (like Donald as well, btw)  Not just this - the most obvious, as mentioned above. But: - NOW the AxD Fans celebrate Elon, but they HATE BEV and LOVE Diesel. They hate batteries and everything Elons business stands for! - 2 of the TOP EU candidates were picked-up by the police: One because of hand carrying gold "from his grandma" to Luxemburg. Because a true "patriot" does not pay taxes in his home country.  - The second was picke-up by the FBI during a USA trip due to SMS in the context of China spying. While he had a Chinese Spy in HIS OFFICE working! Although Lobbywatch ( a GER NGO) already months before officially asked about that. And he denied. - They think we need to go back to nuclear power plant, which is not possible due to a law from 2011 after Fokushima. 13 years the AxD DID NOT CARE. But now. Problem: We cannot even build a simple airport (see BER, Berlin Ariport)! How should we manage to build 50 NPP that we would need to gi 100% (=50 GW)?  - the most funny thing is: Even the EU far right parties, like Le Penn in France etc. said they are "without any leadership" and out of control. And the quid the cooperation!
​ @harryhundertmarkhl  Lügner. "AfD-Spitzenkandidatin zahlt Steuern in der Schweiz  Laut Schweizer Behörden zahlt die AfD-Politikerin Alice Weidel Steuern in Biel, wo sie auch gemeldet ist. Weidel behauptet, sie habe alles korrekt geregelt." Q: Zeit
Maybe you are desperate to label people as Far Right when it doesn't fit your narrative
Their leader is Björn Höcke and his idol is Friedrich Göbbels.
I wonder how her partner can deal with the fact that the partner os a far right extremist
 @Swatkats-jx7cw  Maybe the far right people here in GER do not have the balls to accept the fact of being far right!  That is actually closer to the truth.
​ @Michael_from_EU_Germany they ARE married (eingetragene Lebenspartnerschaft) and there is severe doubt that she actually lives in Germany.
​ @tgis   And this still doesnt make it right. Her first place of residence is Berlin, second is in switzerland.
 @chrismath149 that’s simple to answer: because that is not the reason. Their exclusive policy is the reason why. And that has even been explored and concluded officially by the German Constitution Protection.
 @Balu_420  Frau Weidel u. ihre Partnerin leben in Deutschland und in der Schweiz. Bei Frau Weidel wird der Schwerpunkt in Deutschland sein. Das ergibt sich bereits aus dem zeitlichen Umfang aus der Tätigkeit als Partei- und Fraktionsvorsitzende.
 @rajfc  Weidel is not accepted by the ultra-right wing. And if you listen to her you should unterstand that she is both lesbian and nevertheless politically extreme.
yes, AND they demand that gays should be sent to prison. that’s the reason she doen’t live i germamy. they contradict each other on multiple levels but make no mistake in thinking that because o their chancellor candidate, they step away from these ideologies - they keep reminding us in their speeches again and again…
 @chrismath149 they haven’t moved right, they stayed where they always have been since 1930…the AFD clearly is no center-right with all that they stand. CDS-CSU is our center right how in the past has moved further center
 @chrismath149 because that’s not what they want…if we learnt anything, than that less state intervention becomes more state intervention when it comes to oppositions
That's actually rather clever as a way of deflecting the Nazi accusation.
 @news2hedz227  you: I cant be stpd, Im watching The New York Times
 @souly75  ​ well turned out in the end he couldn't be indeed
Maybe the fact that she is married to a refugee should tell you that she is not racist but just has valid concerns about immigration. You just need her to be racist in your narrative so that you don't have to challenge your view on immigration.
Ah yes, because sexuality and nationality are directly connected to ones own political stance, even if that stance is actually against those who vote for it in the first place. That has certainly never happened.
​ @_jpg arguing about whether she pays taxes or not really misses the overall point being made
Judgemental people having rules for everyone else but not them is very common.
@ it is like, i'm from the left, i Can't be a fascist, right ?
 @e.b.344  No. Income tax in Germany, living expenses are paid by the partner.
​ @chrismath149 If you can't differentiate between what's left or right go back to school. You won't find any left party other than those labelling themselves as communists/ socialists advocating for state control of business, etc.
The far right was also unpredictable the first time around, but it all ends up in the same place.
​ @tgis it isn't true, switzerland is her second apartment. She pays taxes in germany
Which is exactly why I have no idea how AFD voters can believe a single word this woman says, and why they seriously think she cares about Germany if she doesn't even live here.
 @thefuturefactory56  For once, fascists controlled businesses. So where they left, or right, or neither? I think you have a severe lack of knowledge yourself. Furthermore, socialism even in mild forms are pro-regulation ( for example DEI which are universally accepted now ). Again, you don't seem to understand the extent of socialist practices even in mild forms. High taxes are also a way to influence businesses and control them. You do take away funds that enforce the company to act differently that it would have without it. How is that not interference?
 @chrismath149  What was 'center' in the 1970s, would by modern standards be seen as quite far left. You maybe don't notice the difference  because the laws they established are still there. But no one except the advertisment industry would have seen a tradwife as the future ideal, and college and university education were much cheaper. People could buy their own houses and had jobs that would last for a lifetime, if you wanted so.   So, what did move?
 @chrismath149  There are state interventions that give rights to trade unions, and state interventions that give freedom to tyrants and no one else. That is not a criterion.
 @jusebacho  Which is not a race. They are just south asian people. Interestingly, they see themselves as arians. And if you check history, they are much closer to the arians than us pale central Europeans. (and don't tell me about the Y, in german there is none)
 @pinktfatrabbit  How far left is the SPD, compared to Die Linke? Pushing the goalposts much?
@derdawoist3694   only the smallest amount of her income gets taxed in germany. The Rest of it is getting taxed in swizerland.
@derdawoist3694   only the smallest amount of her income gets taxed in germany. The Rest of it is getting taxed in swizerland.
​ @chrismath149  because you have a child's understanding of how fascism works.
Her sons are people of color because of their Srilankan heritage. Wonder what they will think of their mother when they come of age.
​ @chrismath149 The far right groups in Europe can have different origins. The AfD used to focus more on the EU but has picked up bits and pieces along the way.  The party has still not decided if they want to expand welfare programs or drastically reduce the state.
​ @chrismath149 The AfD has a large wing of people who want an expanded welfare state, but only for ethnic Germans. The AfD usually postpones such awkward questions by talking about other things.  There is already a German liberal party who opposed the CDU and wants a smaller state.  There is a whole bunch of libertarians with very specific freedoms they want, who can flip and embrace mass state surveillance the next second. As long as it does not hinder them personally.
​ @JB-ti7bl The AfD has shifted closer to national conservatism. The AfD is a sort of umbrella group where a lot of different, conflicting people have been absorbed.  You can find AfD people who think a big welfare state is the best.
​ @chrismath149 The AfD has a number of factions with very different ideas on that.  Instead of having an awkward talk with AfD voters who expect a strong welfare state, they prefer to talk about other things.
 @harryhundertmarkhl  she mainly lives there, she shops there so she pays taxes there
Germany is insane mode. Now next lesbian Chancellor 😂 Indian male politicians will not welcome her😅
​ @ItsMe-qp9zt The AfD has periodic conflicts about what nationalism means. There are parts of it who think the party leadership has adapted too much.
​ @harryhundertmarkhl she certainly does. She lives there and owns property. So she is paying at least property tax. She also pays income tax in Switzerland and Germany.  But her german income is strangely low considering her lifestyle and occupation. Like "lowest 15%" low. While her role puts her into at least top 30% of earners.
​@chrismath149 qhere does the AfD want less state intervention?  Literally no point in their programm is less state intervention. Yes they say that they want it  but their entire programm is state intervention.
​ @marvin2678 they are. There is zero doubt about that. What you are saying is essentially the same as saying "maybe Lenin was not a communist"
 @harryhundertmarkhl  If you don’t have any documents to support your statement, your statement is just a claim. A false claim is a lie. If you don’t want to be a liar, you can surely post a link to a document that proves your claim here
she is not lesbian, she is only married to a woman 🙄 (her own words lmao it became a meme in germany)
 @Balu_420  Could it be she can't even go shopping without security guards in Germany because of permanent propaganda by the state medias?
Weidel pays taxes in Germany. She explicitly clarified this in TV.
 @Balu_420  "as we all Germans know" - Ich gehöre nicht dazu!
What's funny for me as a Swiss about this: I've known this type all my life. We called them "crypto Nazis" sometimes (no connection to crypto currencies, just because they expressed their Nazi ideology in cryptic ways). People who, in ideology, are clearly white supremacist, racist and authoritarian, hence Neonazis, but act as if they're just everyday conservatives with a love for Swiss tradition. It just used to be men in general. And at home, for some reason, they always had a wife from Thailand, Eastern Europe, Africa ... exactly the places they called backwards, primitive, criminal etc., the places where all evil came to our country from according to them.
Conservative LGBT people turning against their own kind and other marginalised groups is horrifying. I too held conservative beliefs but now am developing strong balanced and Leftist beliefs to understand both sides.
not true she pays taxes in germany. her wife is from suisse, they have two households. Dont lie or spread fake stuff
 @chrismath149  seriously,  YOU have an absurd simplified understanding of economics (and politics)  Both in Italy and Germany, fascists fueled the fears of the middle and upper classes regarding socialist movements that threatened to challenge the existing property and power structures. German industrialists were skeptical of the Weimar Republic because they rejected its welfare measures and the influence of the SPD, just as they opposed the introduction of compulsory arbitration in labor disputes between workers and employers.  The economic interventions after the seizure of power initially consisted only of subsidy programs comparable to the "New Deal" in America. While industrialists were politically aligned with nationalist policies, they were granted economic freedom. This is also evident in the fact that the adoption of the Führer principle by large industries did not weaken their autonomy; on the contrary, it contributed to their strengthening, as industrial interest groups were now optimally coordinated and could present a united front externally. At no point was there a planned economy!  Only later—actually too late for the course of the war—when the economy had to be converted to a war economy, did direct control take place.  The totalitarianism theroem in economy as described i.e. by Stolper or Lochner, represents an often debunked minority opinion!
Not refugee, her wife is Swiss, adopted as a Baby :)
 @JB-ti7bl  The AfD is even to far right for the other somewhat established rightwing parties in the EU Parliament. They said to many downplaying things about the historic Nazis that Le Pen kicked them out of their far right EU group. The AfD found new partners and they are all bottom of the barrel. The most right wing group the EU parliament has ever seen.
 @rajfc  Above all it is unpredictable when and for which reason the far left will label you "far right".
 @chrismath149  And Hitler claimed to want to empower the people. We see where that went.
Hating on emigrants tolerable left ? We love the far-right. Far far far faaaaaaar right. Common sense yummie, less racism yuimmie. Less discrimination based on imutable charactersticks, yummie.
​@ Oh, and btw. Libertarians are already far-right. Far right from their economic ideology. The dictator Pinochet but his own spin on it. Libertarianism and Fascism dont have to be opposites.
 @Michael_from_EU_Germany  Weidel has part ownership of their house. So she pays taxes in Switzerland. I don't rly know why that matters.
 @harryhundertmarkhl  So does she pay any taxes at all? Has any of German Media been bothering to investigate in the first place?
 @Balu_420  😁Ms. Weidel broke off an interview (in Überlingen) after refusing to answer the question of approximately how many people live in Überlingen and how many days a year she actually lives there. She is the AfD candidate in the Überlingen constituency.
​ @DeviYim by what metrics is AfD right wing facist extremists?? Since when lowering taxes, limiting illegal migration and trying to fix the exonomy is against the constitution??
​ @dervideominister progressed to what?? Look at the sad state of the country 😂
 @Combat-Mindset and therefore she has to spend majority of her time a year in Germany, but I doubt she does because she does not even know how many people live there
@futacc9448    She doesnt know how many people live where? You mean in Germany or in her city? I mean she is everyday in the Bundestag, or? I doubt she is flying everyday from Berlin to Switzerland and next day back again. Thats just impossible. And even if she has her second place of residence in CH, habeck has his second place in Denmark and Baerbock has her second place in austria.
 @minutemansam1214  Hitler did so by abolishing elections, not by promoting direct democracy.
 @chrismath149  What they say and what they do are two pair of shoes. Trump didnt say he wanted to annex Panama, Greenland and Canada during his election campaign. Neither did he say that he wanted to dislodge Palestinians from Gaza and make it a US colony, or that he would sell out Ukraine to the russians. What makes you think that doesnt apply to the AFD?
 @jabuknesselviech6673  She says that she has no part of the house.   There should be documents available from the authorities. Do they exist?
 @johnair1  Her weekend residence is in Switzerland. She works Mon-Fri in Berlin and lives there.
 @jaideepshekhar4621  In Germany you have two votes  First: Local politicians Second: Vote for a Party  The second one determines the composition of the Bundestag.
 @Michael_from_EU_Germany  no, since 2017 she also pays her taxes in Switzerland, thats why she never gave an DIRECT answer to Jauch
"Legally be called a f" So NOW your ban on insults don't matter. 🤣🤣🤣🤦🏾‍♂️🤦🏾‍♂️🤦🏾‍♂️
She worked in China and can speak good Chinese too (maybe a replacement for Japan?)
 @Michael_from_EU_Germany  nö, she lives in Switzerland, After a Speach she got caught many times to take Flight back to Switzerland.
 @Combat-Mindset  in her City. I doubt she is making the way from that place to Bundestag every, she will more likely stay at a Hotel or something
"married to Srilankan refugee in Switzerland" - 1 correction, she was never a refugee 🙄🙄🙄🙄 but was adopted by a Swiss family when she was 3months old
@ Time will tell if it really is this time I suppose. Sometimes I wonder if people intentionally misused the word for so long to devalue it and lead to where it is now.
 @tgis  she only lives there part time. Her own home is in Germany.
​ @souly75  lets just say the AfD isnt exactly a fan of homosexuals. and considering the Nazis also sent people to the camps for it, thinking its odd is understandable.
@ Seems like the German version of 'Orange Man Bad' in the US
​ @news2hedz227 Да, на украине так же, как я могу быть нацистом, я же еврей!?
 @DeviYim  "The left wing court declared their political enemy radical." I guess that is that.
@ We have a joke/meme in US about liberals "Everyone I disagree with is a Nahtzee". Sometimes Nahtzee is replaced with raysist.
By her own words she pays taxes only in Germany. Her partner needs to live in switzerland because if she gets through with her own politics they won't be able to live together in Germany😂😂😂
And no matter what, you believe that whoever your handlers tell you "is far right" is far right. That's how manipulated and controlled you are.
Was nur beweist, dass man keine Wurst braucht, um in Wirklichkeit ein armes Würstchen zu sein.
@ “Right wing economic agenda.” It sounds like you have the terms mixed up. Firstly, libertarians are not right wing or conservatives; they are socially and religiously neutral. They want people to be free to say what they want and decide what they want as individuals with almost no limits. That is an American idea, not a European one.  Second, there is not such thing as a “right wing economic agenda.” There is only a free market economic agenda. That is also an American idea, not a European one.  Europe can’t be great and must decline precisely because you all don’t understand the societal value of freedom, love of country, and of Judeo/Christian morality. You have deliberately sought to destroy or minimize all three and now you’re paying the price.
​@souly75 What is your point exactly? There were homosexual nazis in the past so it OK to elect new one now? And you have the nerve to lecture people that they should educate themselves about history.
 @redwanur  Limiting illegal migration? But do you already understand what the word “illegal” means? The party you are describing corresponds more closely to the policies of the SPD with the approval of the coalition partner The Greens. The CSU/CDU and the FDP recently tried, with the help of the AFD, to enforce migration laws that would have violated the laws of the EU Parliament and would therefore have been confiscated by the courts. The AFD, on the other hand, also wants to deport people who have already been naturalized, censor the media and, to the horror of all economic institutions, leave the EU and reintroduce the old currency. The AFD's tax relief mainly affects top earners, just as is traditionally provided for by the CDU/CSU and the FDP. The election program of the CDU/CSU, the AFD and the FDP cannot be financed and would entail the highest new debt for the state, the AFD the second highest of all parties. The Left would be the only party to achieve relief for the state budget. The Greens would generate the least amount of new debt for the state.
Almost as if they can't be discounted as a homogeneous group.
 @Moe5Tavern  You should never argue with paid trolls, because a lot of money is invested in opinion making and I hope that the children who are indoctrinated by these people will understand that at some point. So don't feed the trolls so that they become unemployed and children who have been indoctrinated since childhood can't be helped with arguments either.
 @GamePilLP  Do it baby! She is allowed to say "Meine Frau" but not "Meine Ehefrau".  Kind, lerne!
 @news2hedz227  Weird that you jumped to a needlessly elaborate interpretation instead of the more obvious explanation
 @chrismath149  But that is not true. Immigration is this big issue now, but in the past like the 1980s countries like the U.S. have actually been MORE lenient regarding free access to legal immigration and crackdowns on illegal immigration.
​ @chrismath149  you guys are goofy. Hitler privitised industries. The word privitazation finds it's origins in English economists describing what Hitler did.
Wild that the outsider candidate that cares about the working class is literly a Swiss banker. If that was a political cartoon it wouldnt be printed because it was too lazy and stereotypical
​ @souly75  of course its not impossible, its just not what you would expect usually.
@ Ihr Wahlkreis Überlingen am Bodensee bekommt sie hingegen kaum zu Gesicht. Ob da die Überlingen traurig drüber sind?
@ Yes, but then it even makes it worse that she plays the games of those in party who are standing against all that. She might not be far right left herself, but she tolerates and accepts Holocaust deniers, racists and homophobe members and even colleagues. Because she knows that she has more chances in that party than in any other. And that makes her not better than rest!
@ Yes, it pretty much sounds like : I can't be racist, I have black friends!
@ Were did you check it? Because I found exactly the contrary information.
Despite her main income taxes being paid in Germany, Alice Weidel also pays taxes in Switzerland due to her property in Einsiedeln.
 @Michael_from_EU_Germany  they are married, or the quivalent of beeing married so legally it is the same
She probably falls under some complex Grenzgänger tax code. Lives in Germany, spouse in Switzerland, joint tax-declaration... Still I don't see why any of this matters. Because her spouse is a Sri-Lankan refugee now she must accept illegal and criminal immigrants in her country? Don't be ridiculous.
Everybody with a clear mind and who can afford it pays their taxes outside the EU.
 @jusebacho  he got rid of the national socialists who actually wanted socialism first
 @kai84m  ah yes, the oligarchs that is why tax duty should be bound to citizenship
We swiss are trying to remigrate her back to Germany 😂😂😂
 @rajfc  you mean to say being far right doesn't automatically make you racist? 🤯
​ @tgis she has a mandate in the German parliament. She can't pay taxes in Switzerland.
 @tgis  it's wrong. Weidel clarified this multiple times. she lives in germany and pays taxes here. her wife doesnt
 @chrismath149  There isn't any space more right left for the far right.
It's do as I say, don't do as I do. Not surprising at all.
@she has to put up a conservative front in front of the German people. Can’t have her lesbian flings there 😂
 @ChairmanKim  sure just that Alice herself confessed that she is not speaking fluent mandarin... and living in a country equals speaking the Language? If that only were true..
 @Lithiumize  look at part of the movement called "Höcke" or "Krah". those 2 Gentleman are a good sign of why the AfD is considered rightfull far-right-out!
 @chrismath149  and a historic german faction called NSDAP also managed to get itself elected by saying good things.. Until they managed to get into the goverment... Didnt make them less far-right fascists that they were able to put together a good election campain
 @JeDxDeVu  maybe it would be possible if she wasnt constantly insulting and attacking people verbally whenever she opens her mouth? I mean there are many people in the AfD yet not everyone of them needs to live outside of germany...
 @jusebacho it was. It literally was loved by Ford and the capitalists. The economy was a private free market one
 @chrismath149 lol no. Musk is doing the fascist playbook by cutting bureaucrats and then fill their roles with minions. Also the fascists value the market and did large privatizations of infraestructures, like ports
Excuse you. She is not lesbian, she is just married to a woman. As you do.. i guess..
 @Michael_from_EU_Germany  Weidel said it HERSELF that she is MARRIED to a woman that she has known for over 20 years in an ARD-Sommerinterview.
 @alexgichmartinez4477  the nazi economy model was state intervention and economic planning, The government controlled key sectors such as industry, agricultural production, and foreign trade. Read about
 @Michael_from_EU_Germany  Ehm does Weidel actually have to pay taxes as a "Bundestagsabgeordneter"?
 @tgis  where you live and where you pay taxes, can be different places.
 @news2hedz227  That depends on your definition of racism. The Left has been prolific in devising varied and expedient definitions of the concept, to the degree that the term is now analytically useless, and thus so is your remark.
 @chrismath149 yeah, Nazis were so normal in the right wing 20 years ago weren’t they
She is not far right but understands that open borders and climate policies are pushing Germany into poverty and division.
She is not far right but understands that open borders and climate policies are pushing Germany into poverty and division.
​ @nichtda23131 its her second home . Thats not illegal or something. So stop this nonsense
@GodlikeIridium  Wtf, this is literally the truth? She doesn't even cintradi t it herself? 😂 Are you now even starting to change or negate the facts that everyone can see with their own eyes? 😅
​ @Michael_from_EU_Germany : her life partner fights for equal rights to get married as homosexuals in Switzerland. In Germany AFD wants to forbid it.
​ @_jpg  if you go on vacation in another country you "pay" taxes. When paying taxes on property in another country it is misleading to say she "pays taxes" there, as the common understanding of the prase "paying taxes" is to be taxed on your income which she pays in germany. that is just trying to find anything bad against her when there are way worse things she has done than pay taxes in another country...
Weidel pays taxes in Germany as she has also has a residence in Germany
​ @DeviYim The constitutional court is not independent and as such is violating the german constitution, as it is abused for persuing inconvenient opposition parties.
@ she pays taxes in Swiss cos she lives there and married to a Swiss Srilankan refugee
 @saadraees09  saying 21% of Germany are Nazis, are you even thinking before spouting such nonesense??
@Oktey. I didn’t say all 21% were Nazis, I said Nazis have been normalized. Literally people are just doing Nazi salutes now like it’s nothing. American allies of AfD which is the MAGA party are publicly going around Nazi salutes. Is this not normalization of Nazis?
 @f.7481  Sentence 1: Where is the proof? Does it not exist because you have lied about it again?  Sentence 2: Ms Weidel is allowed to have personal opinions that differ from the party programme.
First of all, it's "Sri Lankan" Secondly, you do realize that pointing that out makes you a racist, right?
And if it stands on on the net it must be right. Geez
Don't lie, it's not. And even if it where so, that doesn't make their politics less right.
 @quintu5  its verifyable. unlike the AFD and alice wiesel we dont engage in misinformation.
 @chrismath149  "the others have moved far left." That is a bold faced lie.
She doesn’t pay Taxes in Switzerland 🤣🤣 your comment just  shows you have no idea how tax system works in Switzerland & Germany 🙈
@ she does. She is married to a Srilankan Swiss refugee so holds Swiss passport. She is a migrant
 @Kurokku_TH   well it’s not forbidden to have private property outside of Germany. Like many others Germans and politicians are having properties outside of Germany!
 @AMATER898  Of course, the judges of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution are not independent; they take an oath of office to uphold the German constitution. All German parties were in opposition at certain times, but only left-wing extremist and right-wing extremist parties were under observation. In the history of the Federal Republic of Germany, only two parties have been banned: in 1952 the Socialist Reich Party (SRP), a successor organization to the National Socialist Party (NSDAP), and in 1956 the Communist Party of Germany (KPD). The neo-Nazi party National Democratic Party of Germany (NPD) was not banned by the Federal Constitutional Court in 2017. The court found that the party was unconstitutional, but the party was too small to actually be able to destroy the liberal democratic basic order. So your statement is demonstrably false.
You have to admit being unpredictable is a winning strategy. Even Sun Tzu would be proud.
 @chrismath149  exactly! People in the centre look far right to the leftists!
maybe they're just not the far-right you know, fkin sherlock holmes....
 @news2hedz227  or it isn't a cover but you're not smart enough to realize it
​ @Balu_420 could you please at least not speak for all Germans... As long as you tell such nonsense...
She lives and works in Germany and pays her taxes here!
Alive Weidel is very well articulated and educated so stop spreading lies!
Alice Weidel does not even live in Switerland she lives in Germany!
Alice Weidel does live in Germany and she does pay her taxes!
Only unpredictable if you let people outside the party tell you what the values are...as is the normal way with the media, entertainment, comedians, universities....
Yes I don’t know where this comes from. I think it’s a glitch.  The funniest thing is that they just seem to try to ignore and not talk about it. But imagine the cognitive dissonance :D
 @souly75  nobody said that. you need to learn how to read xD one guy said that It is a great cover, the other one said that it is not the usual suspect which both is true. don't try to create a negative space here when there isn't one lil guy
What part is "far-right"? Because stuff like not wanting your nation invaded is pretty much common throughout all countries, all races, and all governments throughout history until like 50 years ago.
they’re not married but in a legal partnership and her wife is not a refugee, she was adopted as a baby i believe (not trying to defend Weidel!)
 @CP-rg5mi  my point is that Nazis can be homosexuals and it's NOT OK to vote them! I answered the first statement that in my view said Alice can't be a Nazi because she is married to a woman from Sri Lanka
@nichtda23131 So does every other foreign citizen in Switzerland with a double taxation application, what gives - are Germans a special knicknack of yours?
 @Michael_from_EU_Germany  so? It doesen`t change the fact that she is a lesbian leader who promotes politics against homosexuals.
BS. But if telling lies helps you to cope with us getting stronger and stronger … you do you.
​ @Lithiumize  die rechtsextremen Aussagen der Politiker und vieler vieler Wähler reichen da schon.
​ @chrismath149  da will uns also jemand sagen, dass diese "Partei" eine nette konservative Partei sei? So ein Blödsinn.
 @JasperAkhkharu  "Hey, Hitler wasn't even German. He was from Austria." Und Beethoven war Deutsch. Um mal Josef Hader zu zitiern: "Es kommt wohl darauf an, wer wo was wor'n is."
​ @souly75 dear god the level of detachment from this comment for reality and history is something else here... Peak "mydwytteryy"
@jusebacho  The nazi economy was war economy. There is no reason in this world other than stupidity or deliberately manipulation, to call Hitler a commie. And Alice is clearly not a stupid person. But she is morally debased and completely unscrupulous.
​ @dervideominister "the other ones haven't moved left, they have progressed"       Literally what?
Lie. Her main residence is in Germany and she also pays her taxes in Germany.
She does not pay taxes in Switzerland, dude, why are you spreading lies.
​ @souly75  They cannot, he was murdered when the others found out. I guess they have relaxed a little bit 🙄
@nillyk5671  he was murdere for other reasons but his homosexuality was the best to tell. And Alice is an Alibi for the AFD. Members of this party want homosexuals in prison or KZ...there are such extremists in this party but many don't want to see this.
You are ly1ng though. She said it herself and came out of her own mouth: "Ich bin mit einer Frau verheiratet" She said it live too.
 @pinktfatrabbit you sure mate? In that case I would suggest you listen to what they’re saying…
​ @chrismath149 realy depends on your local political culture. All American Partys would be right to far right compared to Germany which has a social capitalistic System, where even people on the right want to protect the workers rights a little Bit.
 @JohannesSkolaude  The Democrats would not seem far right, particularly compared to the AfD, and lesser though, the CDU/CSU.  Worker protection....sorry, if I find it funny ( in a dark way ) but all that effort spent to protect workers are in vain because regulation and high taxes caused many industrial companies to leave Germany or at least outsource part of the production. Not only was it counterproductive in regards to social policy, it also was counter productive in regards to slowing down climate change and the economy in general. What good does worker protection do you, when you are out of a job? Minimum wages also did not help, because in general, it does not increase productivity, therefore only leads to inflation, and you cannot do anything with the additional money and in fact, may get poorer. China is well-known to profit from German companies investing there. Energy is mostly won by coal fueled powerplants and emissions there are through the roof. Just another example of worker protection being taken so far that is leads to the opposite effect it intended. All of this is really ignorant to the causes and effects high regulation has, and it is not a theory but a fact that economically liberal parties leave all - the poor and the rich - better off.
​@therpope  it ain't a tax free country, but the income tax is way lower than in Germany.
 @Balu_420  Well, this is far too specific. The lie is a basic skill you need to be a politician. They all do.
 @DeviYim  Oh yeah. And what exactly does that mean? The Verfassungsschutz refuses to specify their findings and the reason for this classification. As long as they won't give valid reasons, this classification is worth nothing.
No one has ever seen Alice Weidel in her constituency. She doesn't even know how many people live in her constituency. This woman wanted to become german Chancellor! That is so shameful
 @chrismath149  that's objectively wrong. not only the far right has moved right, the other parties too.
 @wruzzer  Low taxes, migration controls...that's the same the right has always asked for. The conservative parties have abandoned those goals ( eg moved left ).
 @nillyk5671  In the 1980s, Switzerland illegally adopted about 800 babies from Sri Lanka. These people are Swiss, nothing to do with refugees.
Liar, she does not pay taxes in switzerland. She does politics for germany, there is no problem about having a second residance in an other country.
 @GiGiLove-Attack963  its very important to know though if youre running for a country u have to live there  so its not nonsense
 @DeviYim  it`s not a classification by a court. educate yourself. the court ruled that it is legal to name this party far right. but i fear you don`t get the difference
 @dervideominister  höcke höcke höcke. next we define the greens only by claudia roth, ok?
​ @s.l.9309 euch ist schon Bewusst dass man in mehreren Ländern gleichzeitig Steuern zahlen kann oder?
​ @Balu_420 Die Zweideutigkeit deines Nutzernamen hier bei diesem Thema ist das geilste. 😂
@hansm566  Deutschland und die Schweiz haben ein Doppelsteuerabkommen: Arbeitnehmende mit Schweizer Wohnsitz bleiben in der Schweiz steuerpflichtig, bezahlen jedoch einen zusätzlichen Pauschalbetrag von maximal 4,5 Prozent des Bruttolohns als Quellensteuer in Deutschland. Da sie beweisbar in der Schweiz Steuern zahlt, wie die Behörden in ihrem Wohnort Biel bestätigt haben, gibt es nur eine Schlussfolgerung: Die Steuerflüchtlingsfrau lügt.
 @chrismath149  how did u come to that conclusion? do you think the afd just represents the vaues of 1990s cdu or what? and even if so, time is changing morals and issues in the public eye
 @pinktfatrabbit  i strongly encourage you to look up quotes from afd members and then still saay they're just ring wing. looking at it most conservatively, they are right-populist and in some states right extremist
 @chrismath149  why not? its going against fundamental human rights and german and eu law. just look at their plns for "remigration" thta they are flaunting
I can already tell by your profile pic that you're an extreme right-winger lol.
 @Balu_420  Soso und Sie koennen das ganz sicher mit Fakten untermauern ja?
​@dervideominister But what one person sees as "progressive", other people will view as regressive. Take for example Affirmative Action. Those on the left will claim that it's a progressive policy that brings forth racial equality (now they call it equity) while those on the right claim that it's an inherently discriminatory policy that will worsen race relations rather than improve them.
fqar right and lesbian ? thqat doesnt make any sens fare right is supposed to be conservative so all of the LGBTQRURUFJNFNC shenanigans out the window lmao
​ @Michael_from_EU_Germany  no one in Germany actually says meine Ehefrau. Although I'm American, I live in Germany, married to a German man. Everyone says Frau or Mann. No one says Ehefrau or Ehemann.
 @Balu_420 and all of our other Parties Tell nothing but the truth, I mean our economy had a negativ growth for the last 3 years. If our new government doesn’t manage to turn that around, then we will soon loose our status as first world country and life here will be very hard. And I know for sure that nobody would help us. All those billions to foreign aid, will never be seen again. Thank to all left voters.
​ @chrismath149 this is pretty accurate. But there are some advantages to worker protections. The system isn't perfect, but some regulations regarding how companies treat workers are really needed. I think it's all about finding the right balance and being willing to admit when something isn't working as intended so it can be corrected.
@ Libertarians believe in freedom of association. That implies borders pretty firmly. Someone doesn't know his political philosophy.
@ A libertarian does not want mass surveillance. Calling yourself one without having the philosophical foundation of one means you aren't a libertarian.  I said earlier the AfD is partially also populist. There's also one AfD member who supports a hard course against Russia ( while most in the party prefer a soft course ). Nobody ever said parties have to agree on everything. One side will win. For now, the election program involves economically liberal tools.
@ Most supporters of the NSDAP were poorer. If the first paragraph is already completely wrong I am not even going to bother contiuing to read.
@ If the government disowns even one person for its political goals, then private property is only upheld as far as it benefits the leader. Then you have already undermined libertarian principles and therefore, you are not libertarian.
@ Hitler forced every owner of factories to comply with state mandate and form a council of party-loyal suprevisory boards. If someone did not comply they were dispossesed. How is that privatisation?
@ Capitalists are not a hivemind. Back to the drawing board with your argument.
@ The party leader of the ÖVP in Lower Austria ( conservative party ) spoke in favour of ESG. I will let facts speak for my argument.
 @souly75  Im suprised by that. Im pretty sure it was called a disease back then?
 @JB-ti7bl  I am in awe on how the AFD has both legally fascists and selfproclaimed libertarian people in its party. Sounds like a lot  of work to steer in the right direction as a whole (that pun is hilarious but not intended)
 @chrismath149  I can greatly recommend Die Anstalt. They just released a video about how Migration is suddendly in the focus eventhough no one cared a few years back, while nothing really changed
@ as long as there are stupid people who get fooled there will always be hope for the far right
 @chrismath149  then why bother to comment at all if you can't accept the facts?
 @rajfc  It's about "power" based on "empörende Dummheit."  (Dr H Ahrendt). As Shakespear wrote:  "A rose by any other name would smell as sweet."
​ @s.l.9309 whether you are right or not does not matter anymore. Calling someone a lier in a discussion is simply stupid.
That Srilankan must have really loved the hunger games, since she got with a woman who looks like one of their villains
​ @qwerttzizzi just how everyone can deal with the fact that Netanjahu is on good terms with Western politicians, even though he is more far right than Alice Weidel will ever be.  If you stand on the far left and take a step to the right you'll be standing in the middle, btw.
 @dervideominister  🤣🤣🤣 pot caling the kettle black. it must really be something to live in complete ignorance like you do
 @Rmoose369  are you alright?! You seem not able to discuss properly complex topics! Why don't you let educated grown-ups the discussion - and you keep playing ego-shooter and feel strong!
No, they're not. They never bothered to adhere to their own rules.
 @tgis  @Michael_from_EU_Germany Sie ist zwar offiziell in D gemeldet, in ihrem Wahlkreis, sonst könnte sie natürlich nicht kandidieren. Sind wir mal ehrlich, sie hält sich da wahrscheinlich nie auf und lebt praktische dennoch in der Schweiz.
I was just looking up bigotry in a dictionary and it had a link to this exact comment only.
 @byronwilliams7977  you need to listen to Weidel....after i witnessed (and witnessing it was) her trying to speak English, i wondered how "good" her Chinese must be, lol...i can imagine look on the face of my teacher, not amused...
Das liegt daran, dass die Amis wahrscheinlich das Original auf der New York Times Website geschaut haben
 @byronwilliams7977  Ja, in Deutschland spricht man auf englisch besser als in den USA.
I am a double agent German or Russian AI bot gathering intel from the comment section
Germans have a good education. Some watch their favorite shows in the original English version, because we can 😊  80 % are against AFD. Always keep that in mind.
 @byronwilliams7977  it depends on region. In west germany pretty much every young person speaks english well. In east germany not so much, since germany was seperated till 1989
 @mr.f716  According to linguists, English is part of the Germanic family of languages. This explains everything.
But if you ask them in real life if they speak english, the answer is NO
 @georgefriedman1615  And therefore English is the easiest language to learn for a German. I can't understand why native English speaker going mad by learning German.   It's really similar to English.
 @danielkaufmann15  Your second sentence contains several glaring mistakes, proving it's not that easy lol. Writing real English, instead of just German with English words, requires a lot of practice. Practice most people here don't have.
 @sefrasus7360  than help me and fix the second sentence for me. 😊
Nein ich bin kein deutscher und  bist du ein MAGA Liebhaber?
 @sefrasus7360  OK.. You critisicing my English without to have a better example or solution. You've failed badly.
 @Tailionis  Nah, nah, nah. As for our likely next chancellor, about a third of us are lunatics, but we're not bots.
Elon Musk is a German. Now I understand why he is a brilliant man of the West. 🥹
 @mr.f716  right? One can actually hear the s in all ths.
Hello person with the same profile pic, fancy meeting you here
Yes, I am German, too - Hello and greetings from almost but-thank-goodness-not-yet AfD-Germany. I just sit back and watch what just happens in/to the States. Hopefully this is not what we experience in our next elections...🤣
You are right! This election result is just a punch in my face as a German.
@Anonym-yr4qn  yes of course. I am German and i'm completely afraid of this election result. Especially with our historic Background....
@ "without to have"? Ouch, dude. And I'm not your teacher, sorry.
Yeah, I am german lmfaoo But honestly english is much easier for me to comprehend.
 @koarschten1408  genau, Merz an der Spitze kann einem schon ein mulmiges Gefühl geben!
if you can hear the "s" instead of a "th" while reading the comment, it's a german one!
NEIN!                               😃
@ Write in english. Please! This is an english-spoken channel of an american news-format!!!
 @RLStudiossince2021  Nein!  Oh you mean the Team?  Yes, the only succesful german team appareantly
@erwins_arm   I think that 90% are bots. Why is my comment controversial? Did I make the ai bots angry?
 @Bjkg-ku1es  you should listen to Anna Lena Baerbock, Foreign Affairs Minister...🤣
that’s because germans use english on the internet. because that’s what everybody uses and understands. except for facebook moms obviously.
Only 90%? Come on Germans, let's take it to over 100% 😊
Don't worry the German people will come around like they did in the Netherlands, Italy, even Argentina
Thankfully for US 🇺🇸 that era just finished a month ago, & not a moment too soon
and it was 1917 Tzar Russia for the past 4 years.
Laughed because i dont want to do the other thing... or the other thing
Something isn't working there. How can it be the late 1930's Germany in the USA and in Germany at the same time?
It seems Germany is only about 20 minutes behind the US atm.😁
 @thesilkpainter  yes, hopefully they will have a centre right party, too. Otherwise i don't think germany will survive as a country much longer
 @AdnoidHister  You're just making a fool of yourself by exposing to the world that you can only think in superficial US american political categorys. Which of course is absolutely stupid. Plz educate yourself!
And on youtube you can see comments from a few days ago ;)
 @Micha-qv5uf  ok my red European friend !  You’ve just exposed to the world that you are a superior goof 🤣
​ @trumpthis1656 Just you wait for "King Donald I".. He already said "If you elect me, you'll never have to vote again..". There is one thing, you can't deny : he does what he said before..
@lauretiawollschaf9778  Please don't tease me like that, I feel like you're getting my hopes up for nothing, but I ❤️ the idea of a 3rd term, & y'all's meltdown
Yet you literally can't explain how. You can't even explain what fascism is.
What are the "1930's Germany" things that are happening? Be specific. Because all the "everything is hitler and nazis" stuff is tedious brainwashed hormonal teenage girl stuff. It's embarrassing.
No it's not. You just lost. That's all. Go to bed and go to work tomorrow, like you always do. Everything is genuinely fine.
Really nice comment, but it's really more like 1933. Hope they will fix this soon, I hope it doesn't last 12 years. Time travel is apparently possible though.
This US administration as the EXACT same values as John Delano Roosevelt,  WW2 US president.
you idiots are insulting to the people who had to live through it, you just are lazy and have no one to blame but yourself
Ah yes, when you are losing the social debate just call the other guys fascists (of course only after calling them racist stops working).
Sad but true, now what are we to do about it!
Ironically , given how politics go in European continent lately , USA still ahead of Europe
 @AdnoidHister  that funny because Nazi Germany was socialist. Opposing them would be capitalist. But hey, attention is attention.
About to go to the election. I am still tired, need a Coffee and its morning. Relax. There is always a not so well educated woman or man...
Can I comment on this? No comment can be posted here. Extreme censorship.
 @CaptainTodger69  Germany has the age old coalition of CDU (christian democratic union) and CSU (christian social union, which is much more conservative than the CDU). They both represent the spectrum you are talking about. The problem: The leader of the CDU said, when it comes to dealing with immigrants, they will cooperate with the AfD.
 @MrGenedancingmachine  I recommend a channel called World War Two. It may sound like a documentary about tanks, planes, and strategies, but actually it is a very entertaining enaction of the Zeitgeist of the 20th century. A few weeks ago they started the series 'Rise of Hitler' in which two journalists - one leftist, one very conservative - tell what is going on in a specific month since 1930, quote articles from german newspapers of that time, and ask, 'what is Hitler doing right now'. Imho it is the best way to learn to understand where the germans came from.
 @nichtda23131  He (?) is probably grown up, but on the wrong side of the street.
 @AdnoidHister Peak bot behaviour, I dare you to say even 1 bad thing about Putin
A real person comparing USA now to 1930s Germany, and getting 4k likes for it, absolutely insane, out of touch and hysterical. Enjoy the fear mongering!
Before the war there were some simpathies and approaching bc Both didnt Like Commies lol
Way too many western countries have these tendencies these days ...
@FaultierSW You lost so get over it. Stop crying & grow up.
where have all the comments gone, long time passing... when will they ever learn
From his appointment as chancellor on 30th of January until his empowering act on 24th of March 1933, Hitler needed 53 days. Trump is quite determined to break this record.
 @wwbuirkle  in what way would you say the Netherlands turned around?
@ ne ich überlasse das Menschen wie dir mit Gemüse zu reden. Ich will einem unterbelichteten Menschen nicht das Gespräch auf Augenhöhe nehmen.
 @AdnoidHister  So which is it? A liberal hack or a commie? You can't be both a liberal and a commie. They're ideologically opposed.
 @trumpthis1656  Now we're in the late 30s, what with threats of lebensraum and irredentism.
 @AdnoidHister  You just exposed to the world that cousins shouldn't marry.
Please read a history book, just one would do, any history book really.
I hope you know when you say this it makes you look bad. Let’s say it’s true. How bad do you have to be for the population to vote for 1930’s Germany over what you have to offer
 @lukasp4968  dann ging es dir ja gar nicht um den Mais, hast zuerst wie ein Erntehelfer geklungen
 @minutemansam1214  We're about to start a repeat of the roaring 20's with prosperity for ALL of US 🇺🇸 & 🌎, 4 years straight possibly 12. So HODL
 @AdnoidHister people who use the word “commie” in response to a joke like that generally have a very poor understanding of government
​ @Micha-qv5uf  you guys call anyone right of Stalin a fascist, case in point, the orginal comment. So what does that make you?
@ I bet your wife gave you your handle ! 😂
@ hey great come back ! So blistering and it made me go all funny inside ! 😘
@ the snake responded !! Yeah I caught another one !😎
"Legally be called a f" So NOW your ban on insults don't matter. 🤣🤣🤣🤦🏾‍♂️🤦🏾‍♂️🤦🏾‍♂️
3:00 "Antisem itic" My guy, THE ENTIRE LEFT is antisem itic. 🤦🏾‍♂️🤦🏾‍♂️🤦🏾‍♂️🤦🏾‍♂️
@ two different people ! Re read !  Sammy perhaps you will  not understand but try sweetie ! 🥹
@ I didn't do that though. So your argument is invalid. Argue with me plz and not with your imagination.
@ Considering how much you insult and belittle people you must have an overwhelming desire to compensate for something. I only feel pity for you.
Weird thing is germany seems to have the same time zone as the USA
I wish I can move to the states from leftist Germany
 @lial_77 well that’s the funny think about extreme nationalism, classism and nazism… it can be in a lot of places at the same time!   The world is shifting back into a very dark place all over the west, the west isn’t free anymore… it’s turning into what it has been fighting against for the last 40 years in the Middle East.
 @MaticTheProto  Growing up doesn't mean giving up your humor, you sad person
To be honest, with the executive orders Trump just signed, it's Oktober 1933! We had the same, it was called "Ermächtigungsgesetz" another nice German word. I suggest you take a close look at it and see what it does. Greetings from Germany
Yes, that's right 😂, at first I thought the Democrats were suffering from paranoia when they called Trump a fascist, but when you look at the events after the election, I think they are partly right.
 @georgefriedman1615  well the bad guy already took over so its 1933 atm😅
 @MaticTheProto  Yeah, because you'd be telling me to grow up lol
in the USA it's the late 1930s Germany...       No, it isn't
Kind of concerning how many likes your comment recieved. We Americans having a very different history than Germany. You are comparing apples and Oranges.
FaultierSW u theatre kids should rly leave politics to the grown ups :face-green-smiling::face-green-smiling::face-green-smiling:
@ Should we warn the people of Poland that they only have six years left and that the clock is ticking?
Germany was a good place to live in the 30s for the Germans
@FaultierSW The U.S. saved Europe twice from the Germans, we should show a little more respect…
The last time I saw Germany it was hanging in a harness waiting for four bavarians in leather shorts to get back from lunch and love it.
Idiotic post lol pure propaganda.  You might want to read what 1930s Germany was like
​ @AdnoidHister  bro, your username and comment history is available to everyone here 💀
1930s germany at least told its citizens mattered and can't be replaced.
Because you have a democratically elected leader upholding the country’s existing legislation? 😂
judging by Danish racist (apartheid) migrant laws, there is late 1930's in Denmark as well.. Danes have already divided people into two castes (search and read Danish "Ghetto Law"):  -  the first, higher cast (people from Western countries)  -  the second, lower cast (non-Western countries)  ----------->>>   Western countries are: EU, Andorra, Australia, Canada, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, New Zealand, Norway, San Marino, Switzerland, USA and Vatikan.  Non-western: All others   so much about Danish and Scandinavian democracy and respect for human rights. .
"Nazi" is literally "National Socialist" and it was the jews that called the Germans "Nazis". (supposedly jews at the nytimes was notably where that word supposedly started)
Yeah, it is exactly like in 1930s Germany, not an exaggeration even a slightest
​ @theemperorsnake1679  they were National socialists and they didnt oppose the capitalists
Yo I’m writing an article about this right wing comeback in school, can I use this as my end quote? It really fits. You’ll get proper credit and such
This is probably because you did not take responsibility. There is no other explanation.
@FaultierSW  If the United States was 1930s Germany, I wouldn't have freedom of speech or the American Constitution at that matter.
@AlexanderSander  You are welcome to come to America. At least we have the right to keep and bear arms and freedom of speech
 @adriannarobeson4758  Since Turnip tried to get the FCC to go after Saturday Night Live for making fun of him, and since he contacted the head of Disney and tried to force him to order Jimmy Kimmel to stop making fun of Trump, you should enjoy it while it lasts.
@putler965  It is  called slander , and yes, you can file a lawsuit
 @lial_77 No, not yet. In Germany it's still early 1930s😢 We can still change the course of history.❤
 @adriannarobeson4758  Parody isn't slander, genius, and a lawsuit over parody would be dismissed because it's protected by the 1st Amendment. But Turnip has no loyalty to the 1st Amendment.
@putler965  Apparently, you know nothing about the American judicial system, so just stop while you can.
@putler965  You have the First Amendment freedom of speech, but a person has the right to sue for his definition of character , apparently, you're not American.
 @adriannarobeson4758  ROFL. I'm a lawyer, genius, so yes I do. There is no such thing as a suit for "definition of character", and parody isn't defamation. So why don't you take your own advice about stopping while you can.
 @adriannarobeson4758  Your Orange Jesus is such a baby he can't handle ridicule, and ridicule is protected by the 1st Amendment. You understand and are as loyal to the 1st Amendment as your Orange Jesus, which is not at all.
 @amaryllis604  not really... they got 20% but they can do nothing with it ^^
i always find it funny how americans call you a communist when they can't think of anything else :-)  but I'm not one... i'm just an average non-right-thinking german person :-)
 @FaultierSW  ich habe große Angst, dass es 2029 spätestens soweit sein wird. Warum man sie nicht verbieten kann, verstehe ich einfach nicht. Ich habe die Kriterien des Verfassungsgerichts recherchiert und sie sind alle erfüllt, soweit ich das beurteilen kann. Edit: immer schön, andere nicht rechte Deutsche zu treffen^^
 @MaticTheProto  and you want to date toddlers.  I think everyone knows who is the worse person here.
 @AdnoidHister  Did you read "Mein Kampf" from Karl Marx or "Das Kapital" from Adolf?😂😂😂
 @trumpthis1656  How are the egg and grocery prices? Went down on day one? No more Inflation? You like president Musk and his first Lady Felonald Trump? They will have many beautyful children like Eric.😂
 @morkvomork6815  Are you referring to the 20 million egg laying chickens Brandon eliminated last qtr❓🤔
Please get a history book, this is so innacurate. If you are gonna build a world view like that, can't you at lease, at the very least, ask chatgpt if what you are thinking has any historical accuracy.
@ they are in the opposition with the leftists and the greens, the commies didn`t made the 5% pen. oh sorry spoiler alert 🤣
 @morkvomork6815  read them both , back words and upside down ! 🤣
 @AdnoidHister  That´s exactly what I thought. And the bible. All three chapters...
I'll bet you don't have a library care ...if so you never use it.
 @AdnoidHister  a profile picture doesn't determine whether or not what they say is serious. I honestly come from the same community as them and let me tell you I have a lot to say on politics and if you're to ignorant to look at both sides or pay attention in history class you truly do not belong here discussing politics.
@ re read what the person I responded to goof , I now more history than you ever will !  You got you FEELING hurt ! That was to easy 😂
is this a reference to it being illegal to insult politicians in germany literally?
 @AdnoidHister  buddy if you payed attention you could connect the dots to so many things your missing if you wanna be ignorant that’s on you but usually it is the ignorant that fall first in the halls of history
 @AdnoidHister  I can teach you chemistry also politics of the last century and a history of warfare pick your poison
@ I doubt it , perhaps a childish game of mindcraft is more your speed friend !  I’ve kept you whine liberals going on this thread for days and days …..  so easy and sooooo fun ! 🤣
 @AdnoidHister  I like a game called supreme commander actually it’s a pretty fun game also from the depths. Strategy is always fun to me. Minecraft is a bit boring to me and yes I vote blue I haven’t insulted the conservatives yet but it could be very very easy to do just reading the statistics on who usually  votes read. So I’ll leave you with this whether you think your being smart or others think your making a fool of yourself my advice is to pay attention and look at the effects of the world in terms of politics what helps and what harms and make a decision on that do not listen to the media to much since both sides manipulate and take some time to study and educate current politics frequently so you have a understanding of the current world we have
​ @777goncharovv  its not a joke... thats literally the case, but its more like 34 than 38
@ I lived thru most of the history you speak of friend !  This is just fun for me , like most young folk who vote blue as you get older your political views will mature and your eyes will open , you will raise a family and pay taxes and see the world differently ! Hope that journey for you happens quickly !  Good luck on your journey thru life ! Think for yourself and don’t follow the crowd like a blue haired puppet ! 😎
@ propably because they feel and see how censorship is replacing freedom of speech and individualism all around them ? and maybe that`s what this comparison is about
@ i usually call the us american extreme right racist, because national-kapitalist sounds like a nausea
1930 Germany saw the expansion of government and that which it could not do to people, the corporations could.  For example, banking; unless you were a party member the banks would deny you credit.  The government didn't deny you credit, their partner the bank did.   That government/corporate partnership is being torn apart here in the United States right now.  Therefore please explain your comment about the parallels you claim are occurring.
Elon Musk is a German. Now I understand why he is a brilliant man of the west.
You US people are so right in being 1930 because look and watch what happen then world is NOT 1930 but rather woke and left  - a nightmare!
@777goncharovv  I can't say I'm a narcissist so that doesn't bother me.
One of those cases we really should get to see a comment's downvotes.
​ @777goncharovv  I did but it was a sad chuckle for the most part.
@ in America it’s about the same politics for the two very little difference one leads to the other
​ @MrGenedancingmachine  Schule besucht? Nur die großartigen Dinge gelernt, die Amerika der Welt gebracht hätte? Versuch es mit echtem Geschichtsunterricht.
​ @MaticTheProto growing up is realising that nothing of that is even close to reality
Yea, I know, and it had just been half past 1930s Russia a couple months ago.
 @MaticTheProto  Is that "grow up" pointed at those accusing everyone being fash in 30's? While supportine Ukraine and Azov in the same time?
 @Zybran93  smart from someone who plays Minecraft ! I never listen to children who still play children’s games 🤣🤣🤣
In fact, in the 30's america was jealous of german eugenics
What a stupid comparison - the conditions today n the  U.S. have  nothing in common with the Weimar Republic...
your not funny. I live in the USA. and it does not feel like hitler is in power.
 @wwbuirkle Are we sure??? The US isn’t “coming around” according to polls 👀
 @wwbuirkle Only Thinge to sorry about is than the last 2 times they „came around“ it was After losging WW1 and WW2….
 @777goncharovv  hard to laugh when its a  gloomy reality, fascist
And soon it's the same time in germany too. "back to the past" was a good movie, but i don't want to try out the consequences of a real timetravel!
 @MrGenedancingmachine simply study 1933 Machtergreifung (seizure of control) in Germany and it’s mechanisms and you will find a lot of parallels to what is happening in the U. S. right now. Just be open to really look into it and compare.
@FaultierSW, Brilliant comment! As an American you are spot on. Sadly so :(
 @AdnoidHister  says the person with the letter A on their profile
 @preiselbeerpie4555  Unangenehm zu sein, ist die Kernaufgabe des Satirikers. Satire muss weh tun.
that's where the geese are not laughing! (and the chicken aren't laughing either...)
Your English is not the yellow from the egg, but it goes so.
and any english mothertongues: Sese Tschermans - they don't have all mugs in kitchen cabinet.
​ @mensa03 "Er kann mich.."??  If yea have I by-near my self un.alived.maded.     D.h.  Ich wusste ja bisher nicht, dass der "Vogel im Schrank" sprachfähig ist.)
 @halninekay  there runs me the water in mouth together, when I that already again hear!
Now we got to spoon out the soup by ourselves again
@ Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones
 @ArinaKryuchkova  german proverbs badly translated into English. Everyone here is probably German. Otherwise you won’t get the jokes
We are all on the same boat. All of this is to milk mice.
Old swede! I see, the apple don't falls far away from the trunk but if the kid is already fallen in the well you should not cry over spilled milk because everything has an end only the sausage has two, that's why don't be sad Susanne, it's just the beginning and so young we won't come together anymore, heaventhunderass&twine!
 @ArinaKryuchkova  false friends proverbs by word-by-word-translation from german to english, only funny if you able to speak both fluently
man i get a circle run together break after seeing böhmermann
HOLY' gs SHEET METAL' le all these great idioms. This is what I call: Good German quality workmanship !
Totally wrong!  "Now have we the salad" is correct!  Sitting, six!
And when the farmer cant swim, it is because auf the swimming trunks.
That's why our language is so complicated and difficult to learn! 🤣🤣🤣
Someone should tell Homer the German word for “everything” is “alles.”
A bit silly, there is just no space, or else the English language would have those words just the same.
 @konami1979  it makes it actually easier bc you can just create new compound words and replace whole sentences with it. If you try to translate some of them to english you need several words and pronouns...long words are actually short and efficient, sounds weird i know^^
Many social movements – including fascism – cannot simply be torn from their historical context and regarded as universally valid concepts. They emerge from specific conditions, and these conditions simply no longer exist today.
Mmmmh, if we don't have it, we'll make it.  "Rindfleischetikettierungsüberwachungsaufgabenübertragungsgesetz"  Yes, its's real. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rinderkennzeichnungs-_und_Rindfleischetikettierungs%C3%BCberwachungsaufgaben%C3%BCbertragungsgesetz
We do our best :)  The "modular-wording" is a system of endless possibilities :) Even without a dictionary we can create new valid word combinations for every unthinkable stuff which is upcoming.
We have a unique way of combining words, allowing for an unlimited number of possible word formations. In these compound words, each intermediate word retains its grammatical case, which can be further specified using prepositions and other modifiers.
 @xDevoneyx  It's not just about spacing—compound words in languages like German follow specific grammatical rules, including case retention and linking elements, which English doesn’t use. Simply removing spaces in English wouldn’t create the same kind of words because English forms phrases differently, often relying on prepositions instead. The structure of a language determines how words combine, not just whether there are spaces between them. German allows for more precise and efficient word formation because it can create complex compound words while preserving grammatical relationships, something English often requires entire phrases to express. In that way german is "easyer" to use.
I knew German was going to be hard when our teacher mentioned you can just put lots of words together for one long word. 😢
​ @cleartea249 And if you can use the right article out of die/der/das, you're an artisan.. 😂
Wer anders als Böhmermann, gibt sich für eine solche Propaganda her?
They're all compound words. In English you put a hyphen between each word.
I’m so glad you are mentioning this. The feature of long compound words is something I love about German culture.
'Schadenfreude' is my favorite German word. It's so German to enjoy the misfortune of others! lol
Don't forget the best Simpsons line: "No one who speaks German could be an evil man." Mr Böhmermann is the German version of John Oliver and I highly recommend his show.
 @michaelgj23  I'm German and you are correct. However "alles" is sometimes spelt "allem" depending on what you're saying. "With everything", is translated to "mit allem".
 @brobinson8614 yep, it is their feeling “finally you joined us in our misfortune”…. Since 1866.
 @PeterSchmidt-l4p  no it is because of the grammar and the stupid changes within verbs. Also so many articles.
Do the Germans have a word to describe the incomprehensible gibberish in these comments that failed completely to understand the simple humor of the your comment?!?
They just remove the space and call the sentence a word.
And we even believe in existence.. "to be german" was just a stupid idea of a guy called Bismarck.  Beside words we are even masters of delusion.
We call this „Wortzusammensetzung“ which is a word describing words which are ‘words but chained together’ 😅
 @colinjames2469  as someone who uses them for over 35 years i tell you...they do^^
 @konami1979  Mit der richtigen Sprache hat man für alles ein Wort 😂😀
 @SonjaStier-me6jf  propaganda wäre es wenn es nicht wahr wäre...schätze mal du wählst heute blau, weil die "keine propaganda" machen😅
I am sure that the leader of the FCKAFD named BERND.  Not Björn, BERND.
 @froggreen2067  Nein, da es bei dem Wort um das Gerät und nicht um die Person geht! :)
 @cromagnon201  he is a great  guy, he moderate a show wich is  like a german "Last Week Tonight with John Oliver"
 @Hirnie-r1z  It also makes searches easier, compound words = fewer false matches with today's fuzzy search algos.
 @adammwalch  Nope! On German forums, we say "let me put irony tags on it for you".
and we have even words for things that don t exist !
Oh yes we have - and if not - the german language has options to create a new one😁😁😁
They actually don't. Lamest, most inefficient language there is. You can't simply say "my friend" "mein freund" in German, because it means boyfriend. They don't actually have a way to say "my friend". You have to say "a friend" or "my good friend". If you say "my friend" it means boyfriend. Nice profile pic btw.
It’s so easy to make new words, just have to remember what to put in between like an “s”
"The French have a word for everything! "-Steve Martin...YEARS  before Homer came around!
Yes homer simpson we are not as stupid and uneducated as you are with you’re beer and very bad educational system!
I rented a "Parkettbodenschleifmaschine" from a "Parkettbodenschleifmaschinenverleih" to "schleif" my "Holzboden". But I forgot that I need a "Eckschleifmaschine" for the "Ecken" of my "Parkettboden".
The magic of compound words. If there is no word, you just make one. On the fly.
 @cromagnon201  he is a fameous tv Moderator comedy from germand zdf
​ @alexanderkipp2475  Richtig! Er möchte uns immer wieder glauben lassen , dass sein Name  Björn ist , aber wir lassen uns nicht täuschen 😅
Could you tell me, what part of the policies of the AfD are extreme?
lmao all the other parties adopted the afd ideas now. it's only taboo when the afd says it.
​@HSE331That's true lol. Even here in Italy we have a disguised version of it and people praise the party until someone calls them fascists
And the alternative being allowing your country to be flooded with unknowns posing a threat to your society isn’t extreme?
@James-nc1nr Might be hard for you to understand but there are more possibilities than extreme 1 or 0 solutions ya know ?
 @TheColinGOO  little reminder the US Democratic party is considered right wing in Europe. 😂
They only did that because the afd EU front running candidate (Krahl) said that he would not repent his grandfathers memory (because his grandfather served in the german special forces) .. Next day all over the state media it said "afd politician trivialized german war crimes" ... From that point on it caught huge momentum and nobody ever questioned the source. Politicians like LePen had to defend themselves why they would collaborate with someone who is defending german war crimes. In every other country this would be have turned out different.
More Extreme than Nigel Farage (UKIP) was in the UK that kept in the group? Meanwhile Elon Musk's salute and then JD Vance's odd strange rant at the Munich Security council has put some off backing the AFD, and the socialist vote and CDU vote in opinion polls has been on the rise.
They did not kick them out for being too extreme, but because the French nationalists still hate the German dominance and dont want to help them out. You don't understand politics.
They did due to insane reasons, just do a little research. AFD guys didnt say anything false, just research what M. Krah said
@HSE331 Maybe because AfD actually want to do it, while others just gather support of concerned people and make them think, that something is being done about the problem or maybe slow it down, but in reality, nothing is.
"Far right wing" stands for not hating oneself. Simple as that.
​ @PersonaPariah except it isnt consider that? Where did you get that from?
@TheSalis95  The Democratic party is comparable to the CDU in Germany which is considered center right. There are no political parties in Europe even remotely close to the Republican party.
For sure. Everybody in the EU can be patriotic and selfish conservative, besides Germany, since someone has to pay for all this fun and games.
They just told them: If you want right-wing politics, let the master race show you how.
Yeah, that's a very twisted way of stating the truth. Because Le Pen and Weidel could not find a common baseline on migration, they decided not to work together.
@James-nc1nr "Alternative" suggests that there would be only two possible and extreme ways to act. Maybe that's not true at all.    ;-) ("Only a Sith deals in absolutes." Obi Wan Kenobi)
 @PattyGamerLP  repeating a word someone said and putting it in quotes doesn't mean anything lmao
@cr1tikal_arc  And your cricital doesn't have anything to do with intelligence. Thanks for showing.
​ @R94169  no, nobody in should be like that. I don't know if you realised, but the same people who criticize AfD usually criticize the other right wing parties as well. And it's not about being patriotic - that's great! It's not even about being conservative - that doesn't have to be bad either. It's about being radical and close minded.
 @PattyGamerLP  lmfao what are you even trying to say? that was an awful attempt at a comeback.
@James-nc1nr It isnt. Thats the point. Germany is not beeing flooded by anything. James, you have literally no fckn idea whats going on in germany.
 @PersonaPariah Because it is right wing. Not ideologically - identity politics is very much a left wing thing in Europe too - but economically. The democrats in the US are essentially just a regular market liberal party. Their closest equal would be the FDP (liberal democratic party) in Germany. Which on an economical spectrum is an economically right wing liberal party and only overtaken by libertarian parties like the AfD on that front. The CDU - the conservatives - would be something between the democrats and republicans. They are ideologically more right wing but not as crazy as Republicans (generally the CDU and the Republicans since Trump stopped having much in common with each other). And their market policy is similar to the FDP. That‘s why those two usually see each other as perfect coalition partners.  Meanwhile SPD is the first actual left wing party in Germany. Although the SPD too has dabbled in Neoliberal policies (which is probably the political core ideology for democrats) they are at heart an ordo-liberal party. Which means   that production shall be regulated by the market but the state intervenes to regulate the market to promote welfare. Then there are left wing parties that actually want to restructure the economy into either a socialized economy (socialism) which would transfer the ownership of companies to workers or the society. (There are many concepts for this.) They often still follow a market economy to a certain degree but that is essentially what is meant when you hear that ”seize the means of production“ catchphrase. Lastly there are small, mostly irrelevant fringe parties like the MLPD who - if I‘m not mistaken as I never really looked them up - intend to implement a planned economy again such as the GDR had it which would be more in line with actual communism. I think most Americans could stand to learn quite a lot from studying other political landscapes. It would help dissolve this stupid notion of communism being any policy of redistribution, building security networks or accessible welfare services. Communism and socialism are ways of structuring the economy and especially the ownership of the economy. Welfare is not a concept owned by communists or socialists.
 @aaronbulmahn7715  All that yapping just to prove my point then turn around and try and pedal your Davos WEF crap. Nah hard pass
The reason this happened was because a prominent candidate for European Parliament (Maximillian Krah, AfD) had made a statement, in a podcast concerning the question of whether all members of the paramilitary SS can be considered criminals (Verbrecher), within the context that many were forcibly conscripted or had been in banal positions, he made a, admittedly somewhat poorly worded, claim that one couldn't assign a blanket accusation of criminality to everyone who had been in the SS. This was then ripped out of context in international media, where it was claimed that Krah believed the SS was guilt free, and relativizing the crimes of the SS. The French RN under LePen, which has a strong stance on the historical role of Germany during the 2nd World War then made the decision to exclude the AfD.
@ Things will improve throughout the West when people realize that the corporate media lies to them about almost everything. If you are not aware of the term 'Gell-Mann amnesia' I encourage you to look it up.
when a leftist yells extremist, i assume they are talking about a moderate.
Pretty sure that other right wing parties, especially in France, completely agree with the AfD on migration issues, but conflict naturally arises when the AfD wants to reinterpret German history.
 @PersonaPariah  The AfD is pretty similar to the MAGA republicans, pre-MAGA republicans are a different story
Hopefully, the age of shame-oriented politics in the West is over.
@ You wanna know the stuff they write into their election program (which is already quite extreme (and doesn´t make sense financially) or do you wanna know the leaked stuff of what they internally say and plan and why the intelligence service is observing them?
Indeed, on average, Germany was peaceful a peaceful country during the 20th century. 😉
That statement is incorrect. Even the BBC noted that Angela Merkel's speech as the leader of the CDU was perceived as strange by us Democrats because it seemed biased toward the left. In her remarks, Merkel discussed the state of Western democracy, addressing various internal debates in Germany and highlighting the threats facing democracy. However, German media characterized it as a conservative speech, which was misleading.  In general, the US Democrats would be positioned far to the right of the CDU, with the exception of societal politics.
​ @watchRedIceTV ​...but hating all the others, that are not "you". Please consider giving your definition in full ;)
Nothing says democracy like removing parties for political reasons. Your constant hypocrisy will never sink in.
being too extreme is wanting to preserve germany for germans? lol, lmao
 @antonios111  Trivialising war crimes i assume? Also, mentioning "a 180-turn on the policies of remembrance". That seems scary.
 @antonios111 i dont have to? The policies are not the issue. It’s the people the AfD has close contact with. Which are groups such as neo nazis (identäre Bewegung to name one) .  And well the French are not to happy with that I think it is obvious why
To extreme in public.   Far right/fascist/nazi parties try to avoid to show their extremism in public and distant themself from this kind of extremism if its becomes public to get "moderates" to vote them.
AFD came second, Germany has fallen to Blackrock ex employee merz🙄🙄🙄
​ @tortepasti2 yes. Germany is just a lovely country, full of rainbows and sunshine 😊
No, kicked out for show to keep the EU money rolling in
The French Nazis remember that the German Nazis where no nice company when they invaded their country.
the funny thing about this is not, that france right wing (RN) have different positions than the AFD, but that they dont like it when the AFD speaks lightly about nazi times, because the nazis destroyed france, but not because they are that different.
A lot of former WW2 german wehrmacht occupeyed countrys in europe have their own far right extrem nationalist groups and used the german occupation time for its own interrests during collaboration to extinguish their own  fellow citizen oppositionels in privat , political & buissenes . After germanys total surrender 1945 all this frormer collaborators blamed the germans for warcrimes  this former collaborators have done to hide their own actions against its own fellow country citizens . This Folks changed their faces from collaborators to resistance fighters in few minutes and only a few of them got judged by trail for their crimes .
 @Videomaster89  Vance’s strange rant? You mean the speech he gave telling European leaders how it is, that speech that made them squirm because they think the EU gravy train is about to be derailed…
 @antonios111 Matthias Helferich (AfD) said „I am the nice face of Nationalsocialism“  What did the AfD Party do? Did they kick him? Nope. He will get a seat in the Bundestag because he is on top of the state list. Tagesschau asked Alice Weidel why he is getting a seat. She said he meant that „ironically“ and this would be „Schnee von gestern“ which means „Thats past history“. The AfD is extreme!
Extreme in the EU doesn't mean anything. Owning a knife is extreme over there
 @antonios111  A question like this means you are okay with right wing extremism…
@PersonaPariah  no they're not, what are you talking about? Western Europe considers the Republicans as right wing.
⁠​⁠ @suvresvszensur3990  Just because a politician who gets unhinged on stage says, his party did nothing wrong (the same party whose leader calls Hitler a communist, the same party which only exists to criticise problems and being unable to solve them, the same party whose member Höcke honours Hitler and quotes him), it doesn’t mean that it’s true. Everyone could say this.
 @panzerhund8511  Die haben ihre Versprechen schon oft gebrochen. Die Partei existiert nur durch das Ansprechen von Problemen, aber in der Praxis könnten sie ihre Vorschläge nie umsetzen.
Good point! But the France resembles national is a bit more sneaky.  They have understand that if they wanna be part of the show they have to play a smoother game.  Not too much right or radical.. More like the normal parties. But the core didn't change, just how it looks.
That's past, she only acted like that to get money from EU, same as Meloni...
​ @thejoshman3843  when a rightwinger calls someone a leftie he usually tries to label a centrist in order to deflect from him being a fascist   See...everyone can play this game.
